docs/general/run-a-node/prerequisites/stake-requirements.md, before:

---
description: >-
  Overview of the stake requirements to become a validator
  on the consensus layer of the Oasis Network.
---

# Stake requirements

## Mainnet

To become a validator on the Oasis Network, you will need to have enough 
tokens staked in your escrow account.  

:::info

To determine if you are eligible to receive a delegation from the Oasis Protocol 
Foundation, see the [Delegation Policy] document.

[Delegation Policy]: ../../foundation/delegation-policy.md

:::

Currently, you are going to need:

* 100 ROSE staked for your entity's registration since that is the [current entity's 
staking threshold].
* 100 ROSE staked for your validator node's registration since that is the 
[current validator node's staking threshold].
* If you want to be part of the active validator set, you will need enough 
ROSE staked --  this means you will have to be one of the top 120 entities 
by stake. You can check out current top 120 entities on the blockchain explorer 
such as [Oasis Scan].


[current entity's staking threshold]: ../../oasis-network/genesis-doc.md#node-and-paratime-token-thresholds
[current validator node's staking threshold]: ../../oasis-network/genesis-doc.md#node-and-paratime-token-thresholds
[Oasis Scan]: https://www.oasisscan.com/validators

:::info

For more information about obtaining information on your entity's account, see 
the [Account Get Info] doc.

[Account Get Info]: ../../manage-tokens/advanced/oasis-cli-tools/get-account-info.md

:::

:::info

The size of the consensus committee (i.e. the validator set) is configured by 
the [**max_validators** consensus parameter].

[**max_validators** consensus parameter]: ../../oasis-network/genesis-doc.md#consensus

:::

Commit message:

docs: Add info about faucet

docs/general/run-a-node/prerequisites/stake-requirements.md, after:

---
description: >-
  Overview of the stake requirements to become a validator
  on the consensus layer of the Oasis Network.
---

# Stake requirements

## Mainnet

To become a validator on the Oasis Network, you will need to have enough 
tokens staked in your escrow account.  

:::info

To determine if you are eligible to receive a delegation from the Oasis Protocol 
Foundation, see the [Delegation Policy] document.

[Delegation Policy]: ../../foundation/delegation-policy.md

:::

Currently, you are going to need:

* 100 ROSE staked for your entity's registration since that is the [current entity's 
staking threshold].
* 100 ROSE staked for your validator node's registration since that is the 
[current validator node's staking threshold].
* If you want to be part of the active validator set, you will need enough 
ROSE staked --  this means you will have to be one of the top 120 entities 
by stake. You can check out current top 120 entities on the blockchain explorer 
such as [Oasis Scan].


[current entity's staking threshold]: ../../oasis-network/genesis-doc.md#node-and-paratime-token-thresholds
[current validator node's staking threshold]: ../../oasis-network/genesis-doc.md#node-and-paratime-token-thresholds
[Oasis Scan]: https://www.oasisscan.com/validators

:::info

The size of the consensus committee (i.e. the validator set) is configured by 
the [**max_validators** consensus parameter].

[**max_validators** consensus parameter]: ../../oasis-network/genesis-doc.md#consensus

:::

## Testnet

For the Testnet you are going to need TEST tokens. To receive TEST tokens please 
use the [Oasis Network Testnet Faucet].

[Oasis Network Testnet Faucet]: https://faucet.testnet.oasis.dev/

:::info

For more information about obtaining information on your entity's account, see 
the [Account Get Info] doc.

[Account Get Info]: ../../manage-tokens/advanced/oasis-cli-tools/get-account-info.md

:::
