docs/node/grpc.mdx, before:

---
description: gRPC proxy for Oasis node
---

import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';
import {findSidebarItem} from '@site/src/sidebarUtils';

# gRPC proxy for your Oasis node

The Oasis node API is exposed via the [gRPC protocol]. It enables communication
with external applications such as the Oasis CLI, dApps running in your browser
that need to perform actions on the consensus layer or a ParaTime, services for
monitoring and controlling your node and similar.

:::tip Web3 gateway

The Oasis gRPC **is not related to the standardized Web3 JSON-RPC API**. For
EVM-compatible dApps configure a [Web3 gateway] instead which is also compatible
with other Ethereum tooling.

:::

The gRPC proxy may perform the following:

- makes gRPC available to in-browser applications via gRPC-Web,
- filters out control methods such as shutting down your node,
- authentication,
- load balances the traffic to multiple Oasis nodes.

This chapter will show you how to set up a **public** gRPC endpoint using Envoy
so that it exposes only a **safe subset of the [Oasis RPC services]**. The
final section presents an alternative approach to communicate with your node by
**securely tunnelling the Unix socket over the network**, so it can safely be
used by the client, but **does not filter out any services**.

:::danger Never expose the UNIX socket directly!

The `oasis-node` deliberately exposes the RPC interface only via an AF_LOCAL
socket called `internal.sock` located in the node's data directory.
This socket should **never be directly exposed over the network** as it has no
authentication and allows full control—including shutting down your node.

:::

[gRPC protocol]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/oasis-core/blob/master/docs/oasis-node/rpc.md
[Web3 gateway]: web3.mdx
[Oasis RPC services]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/oasis-core/blob/master/docs/oasis-node/rpc.md#services

## gRPC Proxy with Envoy {#envoy}

Let's set up a typical public Oasis endpoint using the [Envoy HTTP proxy] with
the following behavior:

- whitelisted methods for checking the network status, performing queries and
  submitting transactions,
- no control methods allowed and no queries that are CPU or I/O intensive,
- lives on `grpc.my-oasis-node.com` with TLS-enabled connection and certificates
  that you already have from Let's Encrypt,
- `internal.sock` of the Oasis node is accessible at `/node/data/internal.sock`.

Envoy already has built-in support for gRPC so after installing Envoy, simply
put the configuration below inside your `envoy.yaml` and then execute the proxy
with `envoy -c envoy.yaml`.

```yaml title="envoy.yaml"
# Envoy gRPC-web proxy configuration
---
admin:
  address:
    socket_address:
      address: "127.0.0.1"
      port_value: 10000
static_resources:
  listeners:
    - name: listener_0
      address:
        socket_address:
          address: "0.0.0.0"
          port_value: 443
      filter_chains:
        - filters:
            - name: envoy.filters.network.http_connection_manager
              typed_config:
                "@type": type.googleapis.com/envoy.extensions.filters.network.http_connection_manager.v3.HttpConnectionManager
                codec_type: AUTO
                stat_prefix: ingress_http
                access_log:
                  - name: envoy.file_access_log
                    typed_config:
                      "@type": type.googleapis.com/envoy.extensions.access_loggers.file.v3.FileAccessLog
                      path: /dev/stdout
                route_config:
                  virtual_hosts:
                    - name: vh_0
                      domains:
                        - "*"
                      routes:
                        - match:
                            safe_regex:
                              regex: "\
/oasis-core\\.(\
  Beacon/(\
    ConsensusParameters|\
    GetBaseEpoch|\
    GetBeacon|\
    GetEpoch|\
    GetEpochBlock|\
    GetFutureEpoch)|\
  Consensus/(\
    EstimateGas|\
    GetBlock|\
    GetChainContext|\
    GetGenesisDocument|\
    GetNextBlockState|\
    GetParameters|\
    GetSignerNonce|\
    GetStatus|\
    GetTransactions|\
    GetTransactionsWithResults|\
    GetUnconfirmedTransactions|\
    SubmitTx)|\
  Governance/(\
    ActiveProposals|\
    ConsensusParameters|\
    GetEvents|\
    PendingUpgrades|\
    Proposal|\
    Proposals|\
    Votes)|\
  NodeController/(\
    GetStatus)|\
  Registry/(\
    ConsensusParameters|\
    GetEntity|\
    GetEvents|\
    GetNode|\
    GetNodeByConsensusAddress|\
    GetNodeStatus|\
    GetRuntime|\
    GetRuntimes)|\
  RootHash/(\
    ConsensusParameters|\
    GetEvents|\
    GetGenesisBlock|\
    GetLastRoundResults|\
    GetLatestBlock|\
    GetRuntimeState)|\
  RuntimeClient/(\
    CheckTx|\
    GetBlock|\
    GetEvents|\
    GetGenesisBlock|\
    GetLastRetainedBlock|\
    GetTransactions|\
    GetTransactionsWithResults|\
    Query|\
    SubmitTx|\
    SubmitTxMeta|\
    SubmitTxNoWait|\
    WatchBlocks)|\
  Scheduler/(\
    ConsensusParameters|\
    GetCommittees|\
    GetValidators)|\
  Staking/(\
    Account|\
    Allowance|\
    CommonPool|\
    ConsensusParameters|\
    DebondingDelegationInfosFor|\
    DebondingDelegationsFor|\
    DebondingDelegationsTo|\
    DelegationInfosFor|\
    DelegationsFor|\
    DelegationsTo|\
    GetEvents|\
    GovernanceDeposits|\
    LastBlockFees|\
    Threshold|\
    TokenSymbol|\
    TokenValueExponent|\
    TotalSupply))\
"
                          route:
                            cluster: oasis_node_grpc
                            timeout: "0s"
                            max_stream_duration:
                              grpc_timeout_header_max: "0s"
                        - match:
                            prefix: /oasis-core
                          direct_response:
                            status: 404
                            body:
                              inline_string: Only some methods are allowed on this proxy.
                      typed_per_filter_config:
                        envoy.filters.http.cors:
                          "@type": type.googleapis.com/envoy.extensions.filters.http.cors.v3.CorsPolicy
                          expose_headers: grpc-status,grpc-message,grpc-status-details-bin
                          allow_origin_string_match:
                            - exact: '*'
                          allow_headers: content-type,x-grpc-web,x-user-agent
                          max_age: '1728000'
                http_filters:
                  - name: envoy.health_check
                    typed_config:
                      "@type": type.googleapis.com/envoy.extensions.filters.http.health_check.v3.HealthCheck
                      pass_through_mode: false
                      headers:
                        - name: :path
                          string_match:
                            exact: /health
                  - name: envoy.filters.http.grpc_web
                    typed_config:
                      "@type": type.googleapis.com/envoy.extensions.filters.http.grpc_web.v3.GrpcWeb
                  - name: envoy.filters.http.cors
                    typed_config:
                      "@type": type.googleapis.com/envoy.extensions.filters.http.cors.v3.Cors
                  - name: envoy.filters.http.router
                    typed_config:
                      "@type": type.googleapis.com/envoy.extensions.filters.http.router.v3.Router
          transport_socket:
            name: envoy.transport_sockets.tls
            typed_config:
              "@type": type.googleapis.com/envoy.extensions.transport_sockets.tls.v3.DownstreamTlsContext
              common_tls_context:
                alpn_protocols:
                  - h2,http/1.1
                tls_certificates:
                  - certificate_chain:
                      filename: /etc/letsencrypt/live/grpc.my-oasis-node.com/fullchain.pem
                    private_key:
                      filename: /etc/letsencrypt/live/grpc.my-oasis-node.com/privkey.pem
  clusters:
    - name: oasis_node_grpc
      connect_timeout: 0.25s
      load_assignment:
        cluster_name: cluster_0
        endpoints:
          - lb_endpoints:
              - endpoint:
                  address:
                    pipe:
                      path: /node/data/internal.sock
      typed_extension_protocol_options:
        envoy.extensions.upstreams.http.v3.HttpProtocolOptions:
          "@type": type.googleapis.com/envoy.extensions.upstreams.http.v3.HttpProtocolOptions
          explicit_http_config:
            http2_protocol_options: {}
layered_runtime:
  layers:
    - name: static
      static_layer:
        re2:
          max_program_size:
            error_level: 1000000
```

[Envoy HTTP proxy]: https://www.envoyproxy.io/

## Tunnel Unix socket via SSH

SSH supports forwarding a Unix socket over a secure layer. The command below
will establish a secure shell to the `my-oasis-node.com` server and then tunnel
the `internal.sock` file inside the data directory to a Unix socket inside your
home folder:

```shell
ssh oasis@my-oasis-node.com -L /home/user/oasis-node-internal.sock:/node/data/internal.sock
```

The `/home/user/oasis-node-internal.sock` can now be used to safely connect to
the Oasis node **as if it was running locally without filtering any services**.
For example, using the [Oasis CLI]:

```shell
oasis network add-local my-oasis-node unix:/home/user/oasis-node-internal.sock
```

```shell
oasis network status --network my-oasis-node
```

:::tip Permanent SSH channel

To make a tunneled Unix socket over SSH permanent, consider using [autossh].

:::

[Oasis CLI]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/cli/blob/master/docs/network.md#add-local
[autossh]: https://www.harding.motd.ca/autossh/

## See also

<DocCardList items={[
    findSidebarItem('/node/run-your-node'),
    findSidebarItem('/node/web3'),
]} />

Commit message:

docs/node/grpc: Use example.com instead of my-oasis-node.com

docs/node/grpc.mdx, after:

---
description: gRPC proxy for Oasis node
---

import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';
import {findSidebarItem} from '@site/src/sidebarUtils';

# gRPC proxy for your Oasis node

The Oasis node API is exposed via the [gRPC protocol]. It enables communication
with external applications such as the Oasis CLI, dApps running in your browser
that need to perform actions on the consensus layer or a ParaTime, services for
monitoring and controlling your node and similar.

:::tip Web3 gateway

The Oasis gRPC **is not related to the standardized Web3 JSON-RPC API**. For
EVM-compatible dApps configure a [Web3 gateway] instead which is also compatible
with other Ethereum tooling.

:::

The gRPC proxy may perform the following:

- makes gRPC available to in-browser applications via gRPC-Web,
- filters out control methods such as shutting down your node,
- authentication,
- load balances the traffic to multiple Oasis nodes.

This chapter will show you how to set up a **public** gRPC endpoint using Envoy
so that it exposes only a **safe subset of the [Oasis RPC services]**. The
final section presents an alternative approach to communicate with your node by
**securely tunnelling the Unix socket over the network**, so it can safely be
used by the client, but **does not filter out any services**.

:::danger Never expose the UNIX socket directly!

The `oasis-node` deliberately exposes the RPC interface only via an AF_LOCAL
socket called `internal.sock` located in the node's data directory.
This socket should **never be directly exposed over the network** as it has no
authentication and allows full control—including shutting down your node.

:::

[gRPC protocol]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/oasis-core/blob/master/docs/oasis-node/rpc.md
[Web3 gateway]: web3.mdx
[Oasis RPC services]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/oasis-core/blob/master/docs/oasis-node/rpc.md#services

## gRPC Proxy with Envoy {#envoy}

Let's set up a typical public Oasis endpoint using the [Envoy HTTP proxy] with
the following behavior:

- whitelisted methods for checking the network status, performing queries and
  submitting transactions,
- no control methods allowed and no queries that are CPU or I/O intensive,
- lives on `grpc.example.com` with TLS-enabled connection and certificates
  that you already have from Let's Encrypt,
- `internal.sock` of the Oasis node is accessible at `/node/data/internal.sock`.

:::info Example hostnames

This chapter uses various hostnames under the `example.com` domain. These only
serve as an example and in a real deployment you should replace them with your
own domain.

:::

Envoy already has built-in support for gRPC so after installing Envoy, simply
put the configuration below inside your `envoy.yaml` and then execute the proxy
with `envoy -c envoy.yaml`.

```yaml title="envoy.yaml"
# Envoy gRPC-web proxy configuration
---
admin:
  address:
    socket_address:
      address: "127.0.0.1"
      port_value: 10000
static_resources:
  listeners:
    - name: listener_0
      address:
        socket_address:
          address: "0.0.0.0"
          port_value: 443
      filter_chains:
        - filters:
            - name: envoy.filters.network.http_connection_manager
              typed_config:
                "@type": type.googleapis.com/envoy.extensions.filters.network.http_connection_manager.v3.HttpConnectionManager
                codec_type: AUTO
                stat_prefix: ingress_http
                access_log:
                  - name: envoy.file_access_log
                    typed_config:
                      "@type": type.googleapis.com/envoy.extensions.access_loggers.file.v3.FileAccessLog
                      path: /dev/stdout
                route_config:
                  virtual_hosts:
                    - name: vh_0
                      domains:
                        - "*"
                      routes:
                        - match:
                            safe_regex:
                              regex: "\
/oasis-core\\.(\
  Beacon/(\
    ConsensusParameters|\
    GetBaseEpoch|\
    GetBeacon|\
    GetEpoch|\
    GetEpochBlock|\
    GetFutureEpoch)|\
  Consensus/(\
    EstimateGas|\
    GetBlock|\
    GetChainContext|\
    GetGenesisDocument|\
    GetNextBlockState|\
    GetParameters|\
    GetSignerNonce|\
    GetStatus|\
    GetTransactions|\
    GetTransactionsWithResults|\
    GetUnconfirmedTransactions|\
    SubmitTx)|\
  Governance/(\
    ActiveProposals|\
    ConsensusParameters|\
    GetEvents|\
    PendingUpgrades|\
    Proposal|\
    Proposals|\
    Votes)|\
  NodeController/(\
    GetStatus)|\
  Registry/(\
    ConsensusParameters|\
    GetEntity|\
    GetEvents|\
    GetNode|\
    GetNodeByConsensusAddress|\
    GetNodeStatus|\
    GetRuntime|\
    GetRuntimes)|\
  RootHash/(\
    ConsensusParameters|\
    GetEvents|\
    GetGenesisBlock|\
    GetLastRoundResults|\
    GetLatestBlock|\
    GetRuntimeState)|\
  RuntimeClient/(\
    CheckTx|\
    GetBlock|\
    GetEvents|\
    GetGenesisBlock|\
    GetLastRetainedBlock|\
    GetTransactions|\
    GetTransactionsWithResults|\
    Query|\
    SubmitTx|\
    SubmitTxMeta|\
    SubmitTxNoWait|\
    WatchBlocks)|\
  Scheduler/(\
    ConsensusParameters|\
    GetCommittees|\
    GetValidators)|\
  Staking/(\
    Account|\
    Allowance|\
    CommonPool|\
    ConsensusParameters|\
    DebondingDelegationInfosFor|\
    DebondingDelegationsFor|\
    DebondingDelegationsTo|\
    DelegationInfosFor|\
    DelegationsFor|\
    DelegationsTo|\
    GetEvents|\
    GovernanceDeposits|\
    LastBlockFees|\
    Threshold|\
    TokenSymbol|\
    TokenValueExponent|\
    TotalSupply))\
"
                          route:
                            cluster: oasis_node_grpc
                            timeout: "0s"
                            max_stream_duration:
                              grpc_timeout_header_max: "0s"
                        - match:
                            prefix: /oasis-core
                          direct_response:
                            status: 404
                            body:
                              inline_string: Only some methods are allowed on this proxy.
                      typed_per_filter_config:
                        envoy.filters.http.cors:
                          "@type": type.googleapis.com/envoy.extensions.filters.http.cors.v3.CorsPolicy
                          expose_headers: grpc-status,grpc-message,grpc-status-details-bin
                          allow_origin_string_match:
                            - exact: '*'
                          allow_headers: content-type,x-grpc-web,x-user-agent
                          max_age: '1728000'
                http_filters:
                  - name: envoy.health_check
                    typed_config:
                      "@type": type.googleapis.com/envoy.extensions.filters.http.health_check.v3.HealthCheck
                      pass_through_mode: false
                      headers:
                        - name: :path
                          string_match:
                            exact: /health
                  - name: envoy.filters.http.grpc_web
                    typed_config:
                      "@type": type.googleapis.com/envoy.extensions.filters.http.grpc_web.v3.GrpcWeb
                  - name: envoy.filters.http.cors
                    typed_config:
                      "@type": type.googleapis.com/envoy.extensions.filters.http.cors.v3.Cors
                  - name: envoy.filters.http.router
                    typed_config:
                      "@type": type.googleapis.com/envoy.extensions.filters.http.router.v3.Router
          transport_socket:
            name: envoy.transport_sockets.tls
            typed_config:
              "@type": type.googleapis.com/envoy.extensions.transport_sockets.tls.v3.DownstreamTlsContext
              common_tls_context:
                alpn_protocols:
                  - h2,http/1.1
                tls_certificates:
                  - certificate_chain:
                      filename: /etc/letsencrypt/live/grpc.example.com/fullchain.pem
                    private_key:
                      filename: /etc/letsencrypt/live/grpc.example.com/privkey.pem
  clusters:
    - name: oasis_node_grpc
      connect_timeout: 0.25s
      load_assignment:
        cluster_name: cluster_0
        endpoints:
          - lb_endpoints:
              - endpoint:
                  address:
                    pipe:
                      path: /node/data/internal.sock
      typed_extension_protocol_options:
        envoy.extensions.upstreams.http.v3.HttpProtocolOptions:
          "@type": type.googleapis.com/envoy.extensions.upstreams.http.v3.HttpProtocolOptions
          explicit_http_config:
            http2_protocol_options: {}
layered_runtime:
  layers:
    - name: static
      static_layer:
        re2:
          max_program_size:
            error_level: 1000000
```

[Envoy HTTP proxy]: https://www.envoyproxy.io/

## Tunnel Unix socket via SSH

SSH supports forwarding a Unix socket over a secure layer. The command below
will establish a secure shell to the `example.com` server and then tunnel
the `internal.sock` file inside the data directory to a Unix socket inside your
home folder:

```shell
ssh oasis@example.com -L /home/user/oasis-node-internal.sock:/node/data/internal.sock
```

The `/home/user/oasis-node-internal.sock` can now be used to safely connect to
the Oasis node **as if it was running locally without filtering any services**.
For example, using the [Oasis CLI]:

```shell
oasis network add-local my-oasis-node unix:/home/user/oasis-node-internal.sock
```

```shell
oasis network status --network my-oasis-node
```

:::tip Permanent SSH channel

To make a tunneled Unix socket over SSH permanent, consider using [autossh].

:::

[Oasis CLI]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/cli/blob/master/docs/network.md#add-local
[autossh]: https://www.harding.motd.ca/autossh/

## See also

<DocCardList items={[
    findSidebarItem('/node/run-your-node'),
    findSidebarItem('/node/web3'),
]} />
