docs/node/run-your-node/advanced/sync-node-using-state-sync.md, before:

# Using State Sync for Quick Bootstrapping

The State Sync is a way to **quickly bootstrap** a **full Oasis node** (either a
[validator node](../validator-node.mdx) or a
[non-validator node](../non-validator-node.mdx)) by using the
[CometBFT's Light Client protocol]. It allows one to initialize a node from a
trusted height, its corresponding block's header and a trusted validator set
(given in the [genesis document](../../genesis-doc.md)). It does so by securely
updating the node's trusted state by requesting and verifying a minimal set of
data from the network's full nodes.

:::info

If you have access to an Oasis node that is synced with the latest height,
another option to speed bootstrapping a new Oasis node is to [copy state from one
node to the other].

:::

:::caution

CometBFT's Light Client protocol requires at least 1 full node to be correct
to be able to [detect and submit evidence for a light client attack].

:::

To configure your node to use the state sync, amend your node's configuration
(i.e. `config.yml`) with (non-relevant fields omitted):

```yaml
... trimmed ...

# Consensus.
consensus:

  ... trimmed ...

  # Enable consensus state sync (i.e. CometBFT light client sync).
  state_sync:
    enabled: true
  # Configure trusted height & hash for the light client.
  light_client:
    trust:
      height: {{ trusted_height }}
      hash: "{{ trusted_height_hash }}"

... trimmed ...

```

and replace the following variables in the configuration snippet:

* `{{ trusted_height }}`: Trusted height defines the height at which your node should trust the chain.
* `{{ trusted_height_hash }}`: Trusted height hash defines the hash of the block header corresponding to the trusted height.

:::danger

You need to **delete any existing node state** (if it exists), otherwise the
state sync will be skipped. To do that, follow the [Wiping Node State]
instructions.

If existing node state is found and state sync is skipped, you will see
something like the following in your node's logs:

```
{"caller":"full.go:709","level":"info","module":"cometbft","msg":"state sync enabled","ts":"2023-11-16T20:06:58.56502593Z"}
{"caller":"node.go:770","level":"info","module":"cometbft:base","msg":"Found local state with non-zero height, skipping state sync","ts":"2023-11-16T20:06:59.22387592Z"}
```

:::

[CometBFT's Light Client protocol]:
  https://docs.cometbft.com/main/explanation/core/light-client
[copy state from one node to the other]: copy-state-from-one-node-to-the-other.md
[detect and submit evidence for a light client attack]:
  https://docs.cometbft.com/main/explanation/core/light-client#where-to-obtain-trusted-height--hash
[Wiping Node State]: ../maintenance/wiping-node-state.md#state-wipe-and-keep-node-identity

### Obtaining Trusted Height and Hash

To obtain the trusted height and the corresponding block header's hash, use one
of the following options.

#### Block Explorers

Browse to one of our block explorers (e.g. [Oasis Explorer], [Oasis Scan]) and
obtain the trusted height and hash there:

1. Obtain the current block height from the main page, e.g. 4819139.
2. Click on block height's number to view the block's details and obtain its
   hash, e.g. `377520acaf7b8011b95686b548504a973aa414abba2db070b6a85725dec7bd21`.

[Oasis Explorer]: https://explorer.oasis.io/
[Oasis Scan]: https://www.oasisscan.com

#### A Trusted Node

If you have an existing node that you trust, you can use its status output to
retrieve the current block height and hash by running:

```bash
oasis-node control status -a unix:/node/data/internal.sock
```

This will give you output like the following (non-relevant fields omitted):

```json
{
  "software_version": "23.0.5",
  "identity": {
    ...
  },
  "consensus": {
    ...
    "latest_height": 18466200,
    "latest_hash": "9611c81c7e231a281f1de491047a833364f97c38142a80abd65ce41bce123378",
    "latest_time": "2023-11-27T08:31:15Z",
    "latest_epoch": 30760,
    ...
  },
  ...
}
```

the values you need are `latest_height` and `latest_hash`.

#### Public Rosetta Gateway

First obtain the network's Genesis document's hash (e.g. from the Networks Parameters Page):
- mainnet: [bb3d748def55bdfb797a2ac53ee6ee141e54cd2ab2dc2375f4a0703a178e6e55](https://docs.oasis.io/node/mainnet/)
- testnet: [0b91b8e4e44b2003a7c5e23ddadb5e14ef5345c0ebcb3ddcae07fa2f244cab76](https://docs.oasis.io/node/testnet/)

Query our public Rosetta Gateway instance and obtain the trusted height and hash
there (replace the `<chain-context>` with the value obtained in the previous step):

```bash
curl -X POST https://rosetta.oasis.io/api/block \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-d '{
    "network_identifier": {
        "blockchain": "Oasis",
        "network": "<chain-context>"
    },
    "block_identifier": {
        "index": 0
    }
}'
```

This will give you output like the following (non-relevant fields omitted):

```json
{
	"block": {
		"block_identifier": {
			"index": 16787439,
			"hash": "443b71d835dbae7ea6233b06280ab596287d5c45f88fa76a71bf6cc52366592e"
		},
    ...
	}
}
```

The values you need are `index` and `hash`.

#### Oasis CLI

Query our public Oasis node's endpoint using the Oasis CLI and obtain the
trusted height and hash there:

```bash
oasis network status
```

This will give you output like the following (non-relevant fields omitted):

```json
{
  "software_version": "23.0.5",
  "identity": {
    ...
  },
  "consensus": {
    ...
    "latest_height": 18466200,
    "latest_hash": "9611c81c7e231a281f1de491047a833364f97c38142a80abd65ce41bce123378",
    "latest_time": "2023-11-27T08:31:15Z",
    "latest_epoch": 30760,
    ...
  },
  ...
}
```

The values you need are `latest_height` and `latest_hash` .

Commit message:

docs/node/run-your-node: Fix state sync description
Instead of genesis doc a trusted block header is used,
which implicitly defines trusted validator set used
by the light client protocol (I omitted this detail).

Finally, data is fetched from all nodes not just
full nodes.

docs/node/run-your-node/advanced/sync-node-using-state-sync.md, after:

# Using State Sync for Quick Bootstrapping

The State Sync is a way to **quickly bootstrap** a **full Oasis node** (either a
[validator node](../validator-node.mdx) or a
[non-validator node](../non-validator-node.mdx)) by initializing it from the
trusted block's header, identified by the trusted height and hash. The node's
trusted state is then securely updated by requesting and verifying a minimal set of
data (checkpoints metadata and chunks) from the P2P network. Internally, it uses
[CometBFT's Light Client protocol] and Merkle proofs to filter out invalid data.

:::info

If you have access to an Oasis node that is synced with the latest height,
another option to speed bootstrapping a new Oasis node is to [copy state from one
node to the other].

:::

:::caution

CometBFT's Light Client protocol requires at least 1 full node to be correct
to be able to [detect and submit evidence for a light client attack].

:::

To configure your node to use the state sync, amend your node's configuration
(i.e. `config.yml`) with (non-relevant fields omitted):

```yaml
... trimmed ...

# Consensus.
consensus:

  ... trimmed ...

  # Enable consensus state sync (i.e. CometBFT light client sync).
  state_sync:
    enabled: true
  # Configure trusted height & hash for the light client.
  light_client:
    trust:
      height: {{ trusted_height }}
      hash: "{{ trusted_height_hash }}"

... trimmed ...

```

and replace the following variables in the configuration snippet:

* `{{ trusted_height }}`: Trusted height defines the height at which your node should trust the chain.
* `{{ trusted_height_hash }}`: Trusted height hash defines the hash of the block header corresponding to the trusted height.

:::danger

You need to **delete any existing node state** (if it exists), otherwise the
state sync will be skipped. To do that, follow the [Wiping Node State]
instructions.

If existing node state is found and state sync is skipped, you will see
something like the following in your node's logs:

```
{"caller":"full.go:709","level":"info","module":"cometbft","msg":"state sync enabled","ts":"2023-11-16T20:06:58.56502593Z"}
{"caller":"node.go:770","level":"info","module":"cometbft:base","msg":"Found local state with non-zero height, skipping state sync","ts":"2023-11-16T20:06:59.22387592Z"}
```

:::

[CometBFT's Light Client protocol]:
  https://docs.cometbft.com/main/explanation/core/light-client
[copy state from one node to the other]: copy-state-from-one-node-to-the-other.md
[detect and submit evidence for a light client attack]:
  https://docs.cometbft.com/main/explanation/core/light-client#where-to-obtain-trusted-height--hash
[Wiping Node State]: ../maintenance/wiping-node-state.md#state-wipe-and-keep-node-identity

### Obtaining Trusted Height and Hash

To obtain the trusted height and the corresponding block header's hash, use one
of the following options.

#### Block Explorers

Browse to one of our block explorers (e.g. [Oasis Explorer], [Oasis Scan]) and
obtain the trusted height and hash there:

1. Obtain the current block height from the main page, e.g. 4819139.
2. Click on block height's number to view the block's details and obtain its
   hash, e.g. `377520acaf7b8011b95686b548504a973aa414abba2db070b6a85725dec7bd21`.

[Oasis Explorer]: https://explorer.oasis.io/
[Oasis Scan]: https://www.oasisscan.com

#### A Trusted Node

If you have an existing node that you trust, you can use its status output to
retrieve the current block height and hash by running:

```bash
oasis-node control status -a unix:/node/data/internal.sock
```

This will give you output like the following (non-relevant fields omitted):

```json
{
  "software_version": "23.0.5",
  "identity": {
    ...
  },
  "consensus": {
    ...
    "latest_height": 18466200,
    "latest_hash": "9611c81c7e231a281f1de491047a833364f97c38142a80abd65ce41bce123378",
    "latest_time": "2023-11-27T08:31:15Z",
    "latest_epoch": 30760,
    ...
  },
  ...
}
```

the values you need are `latest_height` and `latest_hash`.

#### Public Rosetta Gateway

First obtain the network's Genesis document's hash (e.g. from the Networks Parameters Page):
- mainnet: [bb3d748def55bdfb797a2ac53ee6ee141e54cd2ab2dc2375f4a0703a178e6e55](https://docs.oasis.io/node/mainnet/)
- testnet: [0b91b8e4e44b2003a7c5e23ddadb5e14ef5345c0ebcb3ddcae07fa2f244cab76](https://docs.oasis.io/node/testnet/)

Query our public Rosetta Gateway instance and obtain the trusted height and hash
there (replace the `<chain-context>` with the value obtained in the previous step):

```bash
curl -X POST https://rosetta.oasis.io/api/block \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-d '{
    "network_identifier": {
        "blockchain": "Oasis",
        "network": "<chain-context>"
    },
    "block_identifier": {
        "index": 0
    }
}'
```

This will give you output like the following (non-relevant fields omitted):

```json
{
	"block": {
		"block_identifier": {
			"index": 16787439,
			"hash": "443b71d835dbae7ea6233b06280ab596287d5c45f88fa76a71bf6cc52366592e"
		},
    ...
	}
}
```

The values you need are `index` and `hash`.

#### Oasis CLI

Query our public Oasis node's endpoint using the Oasis CLI and obtain the
trusted height and hash there:

```bash
oasis network status
```

This will give you output like the following (non-relevant fields omitted):

```json
{
  "software_version": "23.0.5",
  "identity": {
    ...
  },
  "consensus": {
    ...
    "latest_height": 18466200,
    "latest_hash": "9611c81c7e231a281f1de491047a833364f97c38142a80abd65ce41bce123378",
    "latest_time": "2023-11-27T08:31:15Z",
    "latest_epoch": 30760,
    ...
  },
  ...
}
```

The values you need are `latest_height` and `latest_hash` .
