docs/general/manage-tokens/how-to-transfer-rose-into-paratime.mdx, before:

import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';
import {findSidebarItem} from '@site/src/sidebarUtils';

# How to Transfer ROSE into a ParaTime

This guide will walk you through transferring ROSE tokens from an Oasis
consensus layer account into an Emerald, Sapphire or Cipher ParaTime using the
Oasis Wallet - Browser Extension.

## About

Each ParaTime hosts accounts in its own independent chain state, which means
that ROSE held at the consensus layer is not the same as the ParaTime's token.
Fortunately, you can easily swap between the two by making _deposits_ and
_withdrawals_. These procedures are formally described in [ADR 0003].

The _deposit_ procedure will approve the ParaTime access to the specified
amount of ROSE. Then, a `Deposit` transaction will be executed inside the
ParaTime and tokens will be transferred from your consensus layer account to
the ParaTime. If that transaction succeeds, the ParaTime will update the state
of your provided EVM account to reflect the deposit of tokens. Emerald,
Sapphire and Cipher will give you 1 e/s/cROSE for each consensus ROSE, although
other ParaTimes may implement different rules.

The _withdraw_ procedure executes the `Withdraw` transaction inside the
ParaTime which transfers the ROSE on the consensus layer from the ParaTime to
the provided `oasis1` address. If the transaction succeeds, the ParaTime will
update your EVM account state (usually by burning the tokens inside the
ParaTime).

Currently, the Oasis Wallet Browser Extension is the only graphical user
interface for performing deposits/withdrawals to/from ParaTimes. Alternatively,
you can use the [Oasis CLI], if you are more keen to using a command line
interface.

[ADR 0003]: ../../adrs/0003-consensus-runtime-token-transfer.md

## Managing your account with Oasis Wallet Browser Extension

First, install the Oasis Wallet Browser extension. Next, restore your existing
Oasis wallet or create a new by following the
[Oasis Wallet Browser Extension chapter](oasis-wallets/browser-extension.md#create-a-new-wallet).

![Oasis Wallet Extension - chrome web store](../images/wallet/ext/chrome_web_store.png)

Once done, you will see your balance on the **Oasis consensus layer**. Next, we
will import your wallet to be used in the ParaTime.

### Importing wallet account

In the top-right corner, click your account icon to open the Account management menu.

![Account Management - Importing Accounts](../images/wallet/ext/accounts1.png)

Click "Import" and select the:

- "Oasis Private Key" to import your existing Oasis private key to be used by
  Cipher ParaTime; or
- "Ethereum-compatible Private Key" to import your existing Ethereum Account to
  be used by the EVM-compatible Emerald or Sapphire.

:::info

We assume that you already have your public/private keypair. If you don’t have
one yet, please go and create one. Store your Private Key, because you will
need it in the Oasis Wallet Browser Extension.

:::

![Importing Ethereum-compatible Account with Private Key](../images/wallet/ext/import.png)

Fill in the "Account name" that will appear later in the Account Management screen.

![Imported Account Name](../images/wallet/ext/import2.png)

Next, paste your Base64-encoded Oasis or hex-encoded Ethereum private key.

:::caution

You will need to import **the private key and not the mnemonics**. You can
derive a private key from the mnemonics with BIP39→BIP44 converter. For example
by using the [Ian Cole's tool](https://github.com/iancoleman/bip39/releases) offline.

:::

![Entering Ethereum address Private Key (BIP44)](../images/wallet/ext/import3.png)

Your newly imported account will, depending on the account type, appear under
the "Oasis Account" or "Ethereum-compatible Account" sections in the Account
Management screen. Check that the Oasis or Ethereum address shown at the bottom
that it matches the address shown to you when you generated the keypair.

:::danger

In older versions of the Oasis Wallet Browser Extension there was also another
bech32-encoded version of the Ethereum address shown in the Ethereum-compatible
wallet. This address is used in the backend for setting the allowance policy
on the Oasis network. **If you can see it, you should immediately update
your Wallet Extension! The bech32-encoded address of the Ethereum-compatible
account must never be used for transferring ROSE to. The signature schemes are
incompatible (ECDSA versus ed25519) and those tokens would not be accessible
anymore!**

:::

![Account Management - Accounts Overview](../images/wallet/ext/accounts2.png)

### Depositing ROSE to a ParaTime

Now, you can transfer your ROSE to the ParaTime. Navigate to the "ParaTimes" tab.
For the sake of demonstration, we'll continue with the Emerald ParaTime, but the
Sapphire or Cipher ParaTimes work just as well.

Under Emerald click on the "To ParaTime" button.

![ParaTimes - Transfer ROSE to Emerald](../images/wallet/ext/paratimes.png)

Fill in the "Amount" of ROSE that you want to transfer to Emerald and, in our
case, your Ethereum-compatible address in the "To" field you imported/created
before. Then, click "Next", review and confirm the transaction.

![Sending ROSE to Emerald](../images/wallet/ext/deposit.png)

:::info

At the time of writing, depositing and withdrawing ROSE to and from ParaTimes
works for Oasis wallets **imported from the private key or the mnemonic only**.
Support for the Ledger hardware wallet is not implemented yet.

:::

### Verifying ROSE balance on ParaTime

If everything went well, your entered amount of ROSE was sent to the
destination address on ParTime. In our case, let's verify that your ROSE safely
arrived at your Emerald Ethereum wallet.

#### Wallet Browser Extension

You can check the balance in the Oasis Wallet extension by opening the "Account
Management" tab and selecting your destination account to which you
sent ROSE. Then click on the back arrow and navigate to the "ParaTimes" tab.
In the corresponding ParaTime pane, you will notice the available amount of
your ROSE.

![ROSE balance in Emerald](../images/wallet/ext/paratimes2.png)

#### Metamask

For EVM-compatible ParaTimes, you can as well verify the balance in
[Metamask](https://metamask.io) (or a built-in wallet in the Brave browser).
First, install the extension in your favorite browser and add the Emerald
Mainnet/Testnet by pointing your wallet at the Web3 gateway with parameters
listed [here](/dapp/emerald/#web3-gateway) (Sapphire
parameters can be found [here](/dapp/sapphire/#web3-gateway)). Then,
import your Ethereum keypair and your balance should immediately be visible.

:::info

Brave wallet network configuration requires you to enter Chain's currency decimals for ROSE: 18)

:::

![Metamask - Adding Emerald Mainnet Network Configuration](../images/wallet/metamask/settings.png)

![Brave Wallet - Received ROSE](../images/wallet/metamask/brave.png)

### Withdrawing ROSE from a ParaTime

You can withdraw your ROSE from the ParaTime back to your Oasis wallet by first
selecting your ParaTime account in the Account Management screen. Next, switch to
ParaTimes tab and click on the "To Consensus" button near the ParaTime entry.
Fill in the "Amount" and your bech32-encoded Oasis wallet address and confirm
the withdrawal. In a few moments you will have your ROSE accessible on the
consensus layer.

:::danger

If you want to transfer ROSE to an exchange and you currently have them
deposited on Emerald ParaTime, **we strongly recommend that you withdraw ROSE
to your Oasis wallet first and then perform a regular token transfer to your
Oasis address on the exchange!** The ParaTime's withdrawal procedure involves a
number of steps as described in the introduction and some exchanges may not
recognize this transaction as a valid transaction for funding your account on
the exchange.

:::

:::info

Advanced users (e.g. those running ParaTime
[compute nodes](../../node/run-your-node/paratime-node.mdx)) may need to
withdraw ROSE from EVM-compatible ParaTimes stored in their `oasis1` accounts,
for example to claim their ParaTime execution rewards. Oasis Wallet Browser
Extension does not support such withdrawals. Read the
[Oasis CLI Deposit/Withdraw Tokens to/from ParaTime chapter][Oasis CLI] to
learn how to use Oasis CLI instead.

:::

[Oasis CLI]: cli/account.md

### Verifying ParaTime deposits and withdrawals

To verify and validate your transactions (deposits, withdrawals) on ParaTime
you can use the official [Oasis Scan](https://www.oasisscan.com) block
explorer. Enter your consensus bech32-encoded address and press Search. Then
navigate to Transactions section and press "ParaTime" button next to consensus.
You will be able to see all transactions made from both the native or Ethereum
compatible address (`0x`) you used in Emerald to your consensus (`oasis1`)
address where you sent your ROSE to.

![Search result of oasis1 address - Account details](../images/manage-tokens/paratime-deposit-withdraw/oasisscan1.png)

Furthermore, you can click on Tx Hash of any transaction you see on the list.
You will find your **from** native or Ethereum-compatible address, your **to**
destination consensus address, and **amount** of ROSE transferred.

![Tx Hash - Transaction details](../images/manage-tokens/paratime-deposit-withdraw/oasisscan2.png)

:::info

Be aware that the [Oasis Scan Blockchain Explorer](https://www.oasisscan.com)
is built for consensus layer. If you want to explore Emerald ParaTime (0x
addresses, Token Transfers, Contract Calls, etc.), you have to use the
[Emerald Blockchain Explorer](https://explorer.emerald.oasis.dev).

:::

## See also

<DocCardList items={[
    findSidebarItem('/dapp/emerald/writing-dapps-on-emerald'),
    findSidebarItem('/dapp/sapphire/quickstart'),
    findSidebarItem('/dapp/cipher/'),
    findSidebarItem('/general/manage-tokens/cli/account')
]} />

Commit message:

docs: Fix how-to-transfer-rose-into-paratime CLI reference

docs/general/manage-tokens/how-to-transfer-rose-into-paratime.mdx, after:

import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';
import {findSidebarItem} from '@site/src/sidebarUtils';

# How to Transfer ROSE into a ParaTime

This guide will walk you through transferring ROSE tokens from an Oasis
consensus layer account into an Emerald, Sapphire or Cipher ParaTime using the
Oasis Wallet - Browser Extension.

## About

Each ParaTime hosts accounts in its own independent chain state, which means
that ROSE held at the consensus layer is not the same as the ParaTime's token.
Fortunately, you can easily swap between the two by making _deposits_ and
_withdrawals_. These procedures are formally described in [ADR 0003].

The _deposit_ procedure will approve the ParaTime access to the specified
amount of ROSE. Then, a `Deposit` transaction will be executed inside the
ParaTime and tokens will be transferred from your consensus layer account to
the ParaTime. If that transaction succeeds, the ParaTime will update the state
of your provided EVM account to reflect the deposit of tokens. Emerald,
Sapphire and Cipher will give you 1 e/s/cROSE for each consensus ROSE, although
other ParaTimes may implement different rules.

The _withdraw_ procedure executes the `Withdraw` transaction inside the
ParaTime which transfers the ROSE on the consensus layer from the ParaTime to
the provided `oasis1` address. If the transaction succeeds, the ParaTime will
update your EVM account state (usually by burning the tokens inside the
ParaTime).

Currently, the Oasis Wallet Browser Extension is the only graphical user
interface for performing deposits/withdrawals to/from ParaTimes. Alternatively,
you can use the [Oasis CLI], if you are more keen to using a command line
interface.

[ADR 0003]: ../../adrs/0003-consensus-runtime-token-transfer.md

## Managing your account with Oasis Wallet Browser Extension

First, install the Oasis Wallet Browser extension. Next, restore your existing
Oasis wallet or create a new by following the
[Oasis Wallet Browser Extension chapter](oasis-wallets/browser-extension.md#create-a-new-wallet).

![Oasis Wallet Extension - chrome web store](../images/wallet/ext/chrome_web_store.png)

Once done, you will see your balance on the **Oasis consensus layer**. Next, we
will import your wallet to be used in the ParaTime.

### Importing wallet account

In the top-right corner, click your account icon to open the Account management menu.

![Account Management - Importing Accounts](../images/wallet/ext/accounts1.png)

Click "Import" and select the:

- "Oasis Private Key" to import your existing Oasis private key to be used by
  Cipher ParaTime; or
- "Ethereum-compatible Private Key" to import your existing Ethereum Account to
  be used by the EVM-compatible Emerald or Sapphire.

:::info

We assume that you already have your public/private keypair. If you don’t have
one yet, please go and create one. Store your Private Key, because you will
need it in the Oasis Wallet Browser Extension.

:::

![Importing Ethereum-compatible Account with Private Key](../images/wallet/ext/import.png)

Fill in the "Account name" that will appear later in the Account Management screen.

![Imported Account Name](../images/wallet/ext/import2.png)

Next, paste your Base64-encoded Oasis or hex-encoded Ethereum private key.

:::caution

You will need to import **the private key and not the mnemonics**. You can
derive a private key from the mnemonics with BIP39→BIP44 converter. For example
by using the [Ian Cole's tool](https://github.com/iancoleman/bip39/releases) offline.

:::

![Entering Ethereum address Private Key (BIP44)](../images/wallet/ext/import3.png)

Your newly imported account will, depending on the account type, appear under
the "Oasis Account" or "Ethereum-compatible Account" sections in the Account
Management screen. Check that the Oasis or Ethereum address shown at the bottom
that it matches the address shown to you when you generated the keypair.

:::danger

In older versions of the Oasis Wallet Browser Extension there was also another
bech32-encoded version of the Ethereum address shown in the Ethereum-compatible
wallet. This address is used in the backend for setting the allowance policy
on the Oasis network. **If you can see it, you should immediately update
your Wallet Extension! The bech32-encoded address of the Ethereum-compatible
account must never be used for transferring ROSE to. The signature schemes are
incompatible (ECDSA versus ed25519) and those tokens would not be accessible
anymore!**

:::

![Account Management - Accounts Overview](../images/wallet/ext/accounts2.png)

### Depositing ROSE to a ParaTime

Now, you can transfer your ROSE to the ParaTime. Navigate to the "ParaTimes" tab.
For the sake of demonstration, we'll continue with the Emerald ParaTime, but the
Sapphire or Cipher ParaTimes work just as well.

Under Emerald click on the "To ParaTime" button.

![ParaTimes - Transfer ROSE to Emerald](../images/wallet/ext/paratimes.png)

Fill in the "Amount" of ROSE that you want to transfer to Emerald and, in our
case, your Ethereum-compatible address in the "To" field you imported/created
before. Then, click "Next", review and confirm the transaction.

![Sending ROSE to Emerald](../images/wallet/ext/deposit.png)

:::info

At the time of writing, depositing and withdrawing ROSE to and from ParaTimes
works for Oasis wallets **imported from the private key or the mnemonic only**.
Support for the Ledger hardware wallet is not implemented yet.

:::

### Verifying ROSE balance on ParaTime

If everything went well, your entered amount of ROSE was sent to the
destination address on ParTime. In our case, let's verify that your ROSE safely
arrived at your Emerald Ethereum wallet.

#### Wallet Browser Extension

You can check the balance in the Oasis Wallet extension by opening the "Account
Management" tab and selecting your destination account to which you
sent ROSE. Then click on the back arrow and navigate to the "ParaTimes" tab.
In the corresponding ParaTime pane, you will notice the available amount of
your ROSE.

![ROSE balance in Emerald](../images/wallet/ext/paratimes2.png)

#### Metamask

For EVM-compatible ParaTimes, you can as well verify the balance in
[Metamask](https://metamask.io) (or a built-in wallet in the Brave browser).
First, install the extension in your favorite browser and add the Emerald
Mainnet/Testnet by pointing your wallet at the Web3 gateway with parameters
listed [here](/dapp/emerald/#web3-gateway) (Sapphire
parameters can be found [here](/dapp/sapphire/#web3-gateway)). Then,
import your Ethereum keypair and your balance should immediately be visible.

:::info

Brave wallet network configuration requires you to enter Chain's currency decimals for ROSE: 18)

:::

![Metamask - Adding Emerald Mainnet Network Configuration](../images/wallet/metamask/settings.png)

![Brave Wallet - Received ROSE](../images/wallet/metamask/brave.png)

### Withdrawing ROSE from a ParaTime

You can withdraw your ROSE from the ParaTime back to your Oasis wallet by first
selecting your ParaTime account in the Account Management screen. Next, switch to
ParaTimes tab and click on the "To Consensus" button near the ParaTime entry.
Fill in the "Amount" and your bech32-encoded Oasis wallet address and confirm
the withdrawal. In a few moments you will have your ROSE accessible on the
consensus layer.

:::danger

If you want to transfer ROSE to an exchange and you currently have them
deposited on Emerald ParaTime, **we strongly recommend that you withdraw ROSE
to your Oasis wallet first and then perform a regular token transfer to your
Oasis address on the exchange!** The ParaTime's withdrawal procedure involves a
number of steps as described in the introduction and some exchanges may not
recognize this transaction as a valid transaction for funding your account on
the exchange.

:::

:::info

Advanced users (e.g. those running ParaTime [compute nodes] may need to
withdraw ROSE from ParaTimes stored in their `oasis1` accounts, for example to
claim their ParaTime execution rewards. Oasis Wallet Browser Extension does not
support such withdrawals. Use the [`oasis account withdraw`] command which is
part of the [Oasis CLI] instead, for example:

![code shell](../../../external/cli/examples/account/withdraw.y.in)

:::

[compute nodes]: ../../node/run-your-node/paratime-node.mdx
[Oasis CLI]: cli/README.md
[`oasis account withdraw`]: cli/account.md#withdraw

### Verifying ParaTime deposits and withdrawals

To verify and validate your transactions (deposits, withdrawals) on ParaTime
you can use the official [Oasis Scan](https://www.oasisscan.com) block
explorer. Enter your consensus bech32-encoded address and press Search. Then
navigate to Transactions section and press "ParaTime" button next to consensus.
You will be able to see all transactions made from both the native or Ethereum
compatible address (`0x`) you used in Emerald to your consensus (`oasis1`)
address where you sent your ROSE to.

![Search result of oasis1 address - Account details](../images/manage-tokens/paratime-deposit-withdraw/oasisscan1.png)

Furthermore, you can click on Tx Hash of any transaction you see on the list.
You will find your **from** native or Ethereum-compatible address, your **to**
destination consensus address, and **amount** of ROSE transferred.

![Tx Hash - Transaction details](../images/manage-tokens/paratime-deposit-withdraw/oasisscan2.png)

:::info

Be aware that the [Oasis Scan Blockchain Explorer](https://www.oasisscan.com)
is built for consensus layer. If you want to explore Emerald ParaTime (0x
addresses, Token Transfers, Contract Calls, etc.), you have to use the
[Emerald Blockchain Explorer](https://explorer.emerald.oasis.dev).

:::

## See also

<DocCardList items={[
    findSidebarItem('/dapp/emerald/writing-dapps-on-emerald'),
    findSidebarItem('/dapp/sapphire/quickstart'),
    findSidebarItem('/dapp/cipher/'),
    findSidebarItem('/general/manage-tokens/cli/account')
]} />
