docs/operators/README.mdx, before:

import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';
import {newItem} from '@site/src/sidebarUtils';

# Overview

The following documentation is intended to assist any individual or
organization in participating in the Oasis network as a node operator. To join
the network we recommend you first try running a node on the Testnet. The
Testnet is a playground where you can learn and experiment without the risk
of losing real tokens.

[Oasis Network] consists of the Consensus Layer and ParaTimes. Consensus and
ParaTime nodes can be operated by anyone.

:::info

Consensus Layer is a decentralised set of 120 validator nodes that are a
backbone of the Oasis Network. The current validator set size is determined by
governance - the network started with 80 nodes in the validator set in 2020 and
has expanded to 120 nodes over the past few network upgrades. Current node
operators can be seen on a block explorer such as [Oasis Scan].

:::

:::info

Operating a ParaTime Node on the Mainnet requires the participation of node
operators who have the validator node in the active validator set. ParaTimes
have their own reward system, participation requirements and structure. As a
node operator you can participate in any number of ParaTimes.

:::

If you have any questions about running a node you can find us on [Discord].

[Oasis Network]: /general/oasis-network/overview
[Oasis Scan]: https://www.oasisscan.com/validators
[Discord]: https://discord.gg/pJdWeVtmHT

## Set Up Your Node overview

To run a **Validator node**, make sure your system meets the [Hardware] and the
[System] prerequisites and has [Oasis Node] installed.

Then proceed by following the [Run a Validator Node] guide to:

* Create your entity.
* Initialize and configure your node.
* Put enough stake in your escrow account.
* Register your entity on the network.

To run a **ParaTime node** make sure to first set up a Validator node. Then,
set up a [Trusted Execution Environment (TEE)], if you want to run confidential
ParaTimes. After that, proceed to the [Run a ParaTime node].

Finally, if you are building a service on top of the Oasis Network, we suggest
that you set up your own **[Non-validator node]** and (optionally) a
**[ParaTime client node]**, so that your service do not depend on any third
party endpoints which are often behind a traffic limiter.

[Hardware]: ./prerequisites/hardware-recommendations.md
[System]: ./prerequisites/system-configuration.mdx
[Oasis Node]: ./prerequisites/oasis-node.md
[Run a Validator Node]: ./set-up-your-node/run-validator.md
[Trusted Execution Environment (TEE)]: ./prerequisites/set-up-trusted-execution-environment-tee.md
[Run a ParaTime node]: ./set-up-your-node/run-a-paratime-node.mdx
[ParaTime client node]: ./set-up-your-node/run-a-paratime-node.mdx
[Non-validator node]: ./set-up-your-node/run-non-validator.md

## Quick Navigation

<DocCardList items={[
    newItem('Prerequisites', '/operators/prerequisites'),
    newItem('Upgrade Log', '/operators/upgrade-log'),
    newItem('Run a Validator Node', '/operators/set-up-your-node/run-validator'),
    newItem('Run a Non-validator Node', '/operators/set-up-your-node/run-non-validator'),
]} />

Commit message:

docs: Moved Mainnet and Testnet to /operators
- also moved delegation-policy.md to contribute-to-the-network/
- moved network-paramters.md to operators/mainnet

docs/operators/README.mdx, after:

import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';
import {newItem} from '@site/src/sidebarUtils';

# Overview

The following documentation is intended to assist any individual or
organization in participating in the Oasis network as a node operator. To join
the network we recommend you first try running a node on the Testnet. The
Testnet is a playground where you can learn and experiment without the risk
of losing real tokens.

[Oasis Network] consists of the Consensus Layer and ParaTimes. Consensus and
ParaTime nodes can be operated by anyone.

:::info

Consensus Layer is a decentralised set of 120 validator nodes that are a
backbone of the Oasis Network. The current validator set size is determined by
governance - the network started with 80 nodes in the validator set in 2020 and
has expanded to 120 nodes over the past few network upgrades. Current node
operators can be seen on a block explorer such as [Oasis Scan].

:::

:::info

Operating a ParaTime Node on the Mainnet requires the participation of node
operators who have the validator node in the active validator set. ParaTimes
have their own reward system, participation requirements and structure. As a
node operator you can participate in any number of ParaTimes.

:::

If you have any questions about running a node you can find us on [Discord].

[Oasis Network]: /general/oasis-network/overview
[Oasis Scan]: https://www.oasisscan.com/validators
[Discord]: https://discord.gg/pJdWeVtmHT

## Set Up Your Node overview

To run a **Validator node**, make sure your system meets the [Hardware] and the
[System] prerequisites and has [Oasis Node] installed.

Then proceed by following the [Run a Validator Node] guide to:

* Create your entity.
* Initialize and configure your node.
* Put enough stake in your escrow account.
* Register your entity on the network.

To run a **ParaTime node** make sure to first set up a Validator node. Then,
set up a [Trusted Execution Environment (TEE)], if you want to run confidential
ParaTimes. After that, proceed to the [Run a ParaTime node].

Finally, if you are building a service on top of the Oasis Network, we suggest
that you set up your own **[Non-validator node]** and (optionally) a
**[ParaTime client node]**, so that your service do not depend on any third
party endpoints which are often behind a traffic limiter.

[Hardware]: ./prerequisites/hardware-recommendations.md
[System]: ./prerequisites/system-configuration.mdx
[Oasis Node]: ./prerequisites/oasis-node.md
[Run a Validator Node]: ./set-up-your-node/run-validator.md
[Trusted Execution Environment (TEE)]: ./prerequisites/set-up-trusted-execution-environment-tee.md
[Run a ParaTime node]: ./set-up-your-node/run-a-paratime-node.mdx
[ParaTime client node]: ./set-up-your-node/run-a-paratime-node.mdx
[Non-validator node]: ./set-up-your-node/run-non-validator.md

## Quick Navigation

<DocCardList items={[
    newItem('Prerequisites', '/operators/prerequisites'),
    newItem('Upgrade Log for the Mainnet', '/operators/mainnet/upgrade-log'),
    newItem('Run a Validator Node', '/operators/set-up-your-node/run-validator'),
    newItem('Run a Non-validator Node', '/operators/set-up-your-node/run-non-validator'),
]} />
