docs/build/use-cases/price-oracle.mdx, before:

---
description: Build an app that fetches latest price quotes from a centralized exchange and stores them to the blockchain.
tags: [ROFL, Sapphire, appd]
---

# Trustless Price Oracle

This chapter will show you how to quickly create, build and test a minimal
containerized ROFL-powered app that authenticates and communicates with a
confidential smart contract on [Oasis Sapphire].

[Oasis Sapphire]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/sapphire-paratime/blob/main/docs/README.mdx

## Prerequisites

This guide requires:
- a working Docker (or Podman),
- **Oasis CLI** and at least **120 TEST** tokens in your wallet
  (use [Oasis Testnet faucet]).

Check out the [Quickstart Prerequisites] section for details.

[Quickstart Prerequisites]: ../rofl/quickstart.mdx#prerequisites
[Oasis Testnet faucet]: https://faucet.testnet.oasis.io

## Init App

First we init the basic directory structure for the app using the Oasis CLI:

```shell
oasis rofl init rofl-price-oracle
cd rofl-price-oracle
```

## Create App

Now create an app on Testnet (requires deposit of 100 TEST):

```shell
oasis rofl create --network testnet
```

After successful creation, the CLI will also output the new identifier, for
example:

```
Created ROFL application: rofl1qqn9xndja7e2pnxhttktmecvwzz0yqwxsquqyxdf
```

## Oracle Contract

:::info

While we are using [EVM-based smart contracts] in this example, the on-chain
part can be anything from a [WASM-based smart contract] to a dedicated
[runtime module].

[EVM-based smart contracts]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/docs/blob/main/docs/build/sapphire/README.mdx
[WASM-based smart contract]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/docs/blob/main/docs/build/tools/other-paratimes/cipher/README.mdx
[runtime module]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/oasis-sdk/blob/main/docs/runtime/modules.md

:::

We will use the following smart contract:

<details>
    <summary>Oracle.sol</summary>
```solidity
pragma solidity >=0.8.9 <=0.8.24;

import {Subcall} from "@oasisprotocol/sapphire-contracts/contracts/Subcall.sol";

contract Oracle {
    // Maximum age of observations.
    uint private constant MAX_OBSERVATION_AGE = 10;

    // Configuration.
    uint8 public threshold;
    bytes21 public roflAppID;

    // Observations.
    struct Observation {
        uint128 value;
        uint block;
    }
        uint128[] private observations;
        Observation private lastObservation;

        constructor(bytes21 _roflAppID, uint8 _threshold) {
        require(_threshold > 0, "Invalid threshold");

        roflAppID = _roflAppID;
        threshold = _threshold;
        lastObservation.value = 0;
        lastObservation.block = 0;
    }

    function submitObservation(uint128 _value) external {
        // Ensure only the authorized ROFL app can submit.
        Subcall.roflEnsureAuthorizedOrigin(roflAppID);

        // NOTE: This is a naive oracle implementation for ROFL example purposes.
        // A real oracle must do additional checks and better aggregation before
        // accepting values.

        // Add observation and check if we have enough for this round.
        observations.push(_value);
        if (observations.length < threshold) {
            return;
        }

        // Simple averaging.
        uint256 _agg = 0;
        for (uint i = 0; i < observations.length; i++) {
            _agg += uint256(observations[i]);
        }
        _agg = _agg / uint128(observations.length);

        lastObservation.value = uint128(_agg);
        lastObservation.block = block.number;
        delete observations;
    }

    function getLastObservation() external view returns (uint128 _value, uint _block) {
        // Last observation must be fresh enough, otherwise we don't disclose it.
        require(
            lastObservation.block + MAX_OBSERVATION_AGE > block.number,
            "No observation available"
        );

        _value = lastObservation.value;
        _block = lastObservation.block;
    }
}
```
</details>

This contract collects observations from **authenticated application on ROFL**,
performs trivial aggregation and stores the final aggregated result. Read the
[Sapphire quickstart] chapter to learn how to build and deploy smart contracts
on Sapphire, but to get you up and running for this part, simply copy the `oracle`
folder from the [example project], install dependencies and compile the smart
contract by executing:

```shell
cd oracle
npm install
npx hardhat compile
```

Then configure the `PRIVATE_KEY` of the **deployment account** and the **app
ID** you received in the previous step.

Then deploy the contract by running:

```shell
PRIVATE_KEY="0xYOUR_PRIVATE_KEY" \
npx hardhat deploy YOUR_APP_ID --network sapphire-testnet
```

After successful deployment you will see a message like:

```
Oracle for ROFL app rofl1qqn9xndja7e2pnxhttktmecvwzz0yqwxsquqyxdf deployed to 0x1234845aaB7b6CD88c7fAd9E9E1cf07638805b20
```

Remember the address where the oracle contract was deployed to as you will need
it in the next step.

<!-- markdownlint-disable line-length -->
[Oracle.sol]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/oasis-sdk/blob/main/examples/runtime-sdk/rofl-oracle/oracle/contracts/Oracle.sol
[example project]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/demo-rofl
[Sapphire quickstart]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/sapphire-paratime/blob/main/docs/quickstart.mdx
<!-- markdownlint-enable line-length -->

## Oracle Worker in Container

Inside `docker` folder add a [simple shell script] which downloads price quotes
from a centralized exchange (Binance in our case) and sends it to
our contract using the [appd REST API][appd].

<details>
    <summary>app.sh</summary>
```shell
#!/bin/sh

while true; do
	# Fetch a recent price from Binance.
	price=$(curl -s "https://www.binance.com/api/v3/ticker/price?symbol=${TICKER}" | jq '(.price | tonumber) * 1000000 | trunc')
	if [ -z "$price" ]; then
		sleep 15
		continue
	fi

	# Format calldata to call submitObservation(uint128) method with the price.
	price_u128=$(printf '%064x' ${price})
	method="dae1ee1f" # Keccak4("submitObservation(uint128)")
	data="${method}${price_u128}"

	# Submit it to the Sapphire contract.
	curl -s \
		--json '{"tx": {"kind": "eth", "data": {"gas_limit": 200000, "to": "'${CONTRACT_ADDRESS}'", "value": 0, "data": "'${data}'"}}}' \
		--unix-socket /run/rofl-appd.sock \
  		http://localhost/rofl/v1/tx/sign-submit >/dev/null

  	# Sleep for a while.
	sleep 60
done
```
</details>

Similarly, inside the `docker` folder add a `Dockerfile` that copies over the
shell script to a container:

<details>
    <summary>Dockerfile</summary>
```dockerfile
FROM docker.io/alpine:3.21.2

# Add some dependencies.
RUN apk add --no-cache curl jq

# The entire application is defined as a shell script.
ADD app.sh /app.sh
ENTRYPOINT ["/app.sh"]
```
</details>

[appd]: ../rofl/features/appd.md
[simple shell script]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/demo-rofl/blob/main/docker/app.sh

## Compose

Add a `compose.yaml` to the root of your project:

<details>
    <summary>compose.yaml</summary>
```yaml
services:
    oracle:
        build: ./docker
        image: docker.io/YOUR_USERNAME/rofl-price-oracle:latest
        platform: linux/amd64
        environment:
            # Address of the oracle contract deployed on Sapphire Testnet.
            - CONTRACT_ADDRESS=YOUR_CONTRACT_ADDRESS
            # Ticker.
            - TICKER=ROSEUSDT
        volumes:
            - /run/rofl-appd.sock:/run/rofl-appd.sock
```
</details>

Now build and push the image to a registry

```shell
docker compose build
docker compose push
```

For extra security, you can **[pin the image digest]** inside `compose.yaml`.

[pin the image digest]: ../rofl/workflow/containerize-app.mdx#pin-your-image-hash

## Build

To build an app and update the enclave identity in the app manifest, run:

```shell
oasis rofl build
```

This will generate the ROFL bundle which can be used for later deployment and
output something like:

```
ROFL app built and bundle written to 'rofl-price-oracle.default.orc'.
```

[other features]: features/

## Update On-chain App Config

The on-chain app config needs to be updated in order for the changes to take
effect:

```shell
oasis rofl update
```

## Deploy to ROFL provider

Deploy the price oracle to one of the ROFL providers:

```shell
oasis rofl deploy
```

By default, the
provider maintained by the Oasis foundation will be picked.

## Check That the Oracle Contract is Getting Updated

To check whether the oracle is actually working, you can use the prepared
`oracle-query` task in the Hardhat project. Simply run:

```shell
cd oracle
npx hardhat oracle-query 0x1234845aaB7b6CD88c7fAd9E9E1cf07638805b20 --network sapphire-testnet
```

And you should get an output like the following:

```
Using oracle contract deployed at 0x1234845aaB7b6CD88c7fAd9E9E1cf07638805b20
ROFL app:  rofl1qqn9xndja7e2pnxhttktmecvwzz0yqwxsquqyxdf
Threshold: 1
Last observation: 63990
Last update at:   656
```

That's it! Your first ROFL oracle that authenticates with an Oasis Sapphire
smart contract is running! 🎉

:::example Price Oracle Demo

You can fetch a complete example shown in this chapter from
https://github.com/oasisprotocol/demo-rofl.

:::

Commit message:

docs: Add rofl-price-oracle example to the price-oracle use case

docs/build/use-cases/price-oracle.mdx, after:

---
description: Build an app that fetches latest price quotes from a centralized exchange and stores them to the blockchain.
tags: [ROFL, Sapphire, appd]
---

# Trustless Price Oracle

This chapter will show you how to quickly create, build and test a minimal
containerized ROFL-powered app that authenticates and communicates with a
confidential smart contract on [Oasis Sapphire].

[Oasis Sapphire]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/sapphire-paratime/blob/main/docs/README.mdx

## Prerequisites

This guide requires:
- a working Docker (or Podman),
- **Oasis CLI** and at least **120 TEST** tokens in your wallet
  (use [Oasis Testnet faucet]).

Check out the [Quickstart Prerequisites] section for details.

[Quickstart Prerequisites]: ../rofl/quickstart.mdx#prerequisites
[Oasis Testnet faucet]: https://faucet.testnet.oasis.io

## Init App

First we init the basic directory structure for the app using the Oasis CLI:

```shell
oasis rofl init rofl-price-oracle
cd rofl-price-oracle
```

## Create App

Now create an app on Testnet (requires deposit of 100 TEST):

```shell
oasis rofl create --network testnet
```

After successful creation, the CLI will also output the new identifier, for
example:

```
Created ROFL application: rofl1qqn9xndja7e2pnxhttktmecvwzz0yqwxsquqyxdf
```

## Oracle Contract

:::info

While we are using [EVM-based smart contracts] in this example, the on-chain
part can be anything from a [WASM-based smart contract] to a dedicated
[runtime module].

[EVM-based smart contracts]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/docs/blob/main/docs/build/sapphire/README.mdx
[WASM-based smart contract]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/docs/blob/main/docs/build/tools/other-paratimes/cipher/README.mdx
[runtime module]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/oasis-sdk/blob/main/docs/runtime/modules.md

:::

We will use the following smart contract:

<details>
    <summary>Oracle.sol</summary>
```solidity
pragma solidity >=0.8.9 <=0.8.24;

import {Subcall} from "@oasisprotocol/sapphire-contracts/contracts/Subcall.sol";

contract Oracle {
    // Maximum age of observations.
    uint private constant MAX_OBSERVATION_AGE = 10;

    // Configuration.
    uint8 public threshold;
    bytes21 public roflAppID;

    // Observations.
    struct Observation {
        uint128 value;
        uint block;
    }
        uint128[] private observations;
        Observation private lastObservation;

        constructor(bytes21 _roflAppID, uint8 _threshold) {
        require(_threshold > 0, "Invalid threshold");

        roflAppID = _roflAppID;
        threshold = _threshold;
        lastObservation.value = 0;
        lastObservation.block = 0;
    }

    function submitObservation(uint128 _value) external {
        // Ensure only the authorized ROFL app can submit.
        Subcall.roflEnsureAuthorizedOrigin(roflAppID);

        // NOTE: This is a naive oracle implementation for ROFL example purposes.
        // A real oracle must do additional checks and better aggregation before
        // accepting values.

        // Add observation and check if we have enough for this round.
        observations.push(_value);
        if (observations.length < threshold) {
            return;
        }

        // Simple averaging.
        uint256 _agg = 0;
        for (uint i = 0; i < observations.length; i++) {
            _agg += uint256(observations[i]);
        }
        _agg = _agg / uint128(observations.length);

        lastObservation.value = uint128(_agg);
        lastObservation.block = block.number;
        delete observations;
    }

    function getLastObservation() external view returns (uint128 _value, uint _block) {
        // Last observation must be fresh enough, otherwise we don't disclose it.
        require(
            lastObservation.block + MAX_OBSERVATION_AGE > block.number,
            "No observation available"
        );

        _value = lastObservation.value;
        _block = lastObservation.block;
    }
}
```
</details>

This contract collects observations from **authenticated application on ROFL**,
performs trivial aggregation and stores the final aggregated result. Read the
[Sapphire quickstart] chapter to learn how to build and deploy smart contracts
on Sapphire, but to get you up and running for this part, simply copy the `oracle`
folder from the [example project], install dependencies and compile the smart
contract by executing:

```shell
cd oracle
npm install
npx hardhat compile
```

Then configure the `PRIVATE_KEY` of the **deployment account** and the **app
ID** you received in the previous step.

Then deploy the contract by running:

```shell
PRIVATE_KEY="0xYOUR_PRIVATE_KEY" \
npx hardhat deploy YOUR_APP_ID --network sapphire-testnet
```

After successful deployment you will see a message like:

```
Oracle for ROFL app rofl1qqn9xndja7e2pnxhttktmecvwzz0yqwxsquqyxdf deployed to 0x1234845aaB7b6CD88c7fAd9E9E1cf07638805b20
```

Remember the address where the oracle contract was deployed to as you will need
it in the next step.

<!-- markdownlint-disable line-length -->
[Oracle.sol]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/oasis-sdk/blob/main/examples/runtime-sdk/rofl-oracle/oracle/contracts/Oracle.sol
[example project]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/demo-rofl
[Sapphire quickstart]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/sapphire-paratime/blob/main/docs/quickstart.mdx
<!-- markdownlint-enable line-length -->

## Oracle Worker in Container

Inside `docker` folder add a [simple shell script] which downloads price quotes
from a centralized exchange (Binance in our case) and sends it to
our contract using the [appd REST API][appd].

<details>
    <summary>app.sh</summary>
```shell
#!/bin/sh

while true; do
	# Fetch a recent price from Binance.
	price=$(curl -s "https://www.binance.com/api/v3/ticker/price?symbol=${TICKER}" | jq '(.price | tonumber) * 1000000 | trunc')
	if [ -z "$price" ]; then
		sleep 15
		continue
	fi

	# Format calldata to call submitObservation(uint128) method with the price.
	price_u128=$(printf '%064x' ${price})
	method="dae1ee1f" # Keccak4("submitObservation(uint128)")
	data="${method}${price_u128}"

	# Submit it to the Sapphire contract.
	curl -s \
		--json '{"tx": {"kind": "eth", "data": {"gas_limit": 200000, "to": "'${CONTRACT_ADDRESS}'", "value": 0, "data": "'${data}'"}}}' \
		--unix-socket /run/rofl-appd.sock \
  		http://localhost/rofl/v1/tx/sign-submit >/dev/null

  	# Sleep for a while.
	sleep 60
done
```
</details>

Similarly, inside the `docker` folder add a `Dockerfile` that copies over the
shell script to a container:

<details>
    <summary>Dockerfile</summary>
```dockerfile
FROM docker.io/alpine:3.21.2

# Add some dependencies.
RUN apk add --no-cache curl jq

# The entire application is defined as a shell script.
ADD app.sh /app.sh
ENTRYPOINT ["/app.sh"]
```
</details>

[appd]: ../rofl/features/appd.md
[simple shell script]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/demo-rofl/blob/main/docker/app.sh

## Compose

Add a `compose.yaml` to the root of your project:

<details>
    <summary>compose.yaml</summary>
```yaml
services:
    oracle:
        build: ./docker
        image: docker.io/YOUR_USERNAME/rofl-price-oracle:latest
        platform: linux/amd64
        environment:
            # Address of the oracle contract deployed on Sapphire Testnet.
            - CONTRACT_ADDRESS=YOUR_CONTRACT_ADDRESS
            # Ticker.
            - TICKER=ROSEUSDT
        volumes:
            - /run/rofl-appd.sock:/run/rofl-appd.sock
```
</details>

Now build and push the image to a registry

```shell
docker compose build
docker compose push
```

For extra security, you can **[pin the image digest]** inside `compose.yaml`.

[pin the image digest]: ../rofl/workflow/containerize-app.mdx#pin-your-image-hash

## Build

To build an app and update the enclave identity in the app manifest, run:

```shell
oasis rofl build
```

This will generate the ROFL bundle which can be used for later deployment and
output something like:

```
ROFL app built and bundle written to 'rofl-price-oracle.default.orc'.
```

[other features]: features/

## Update On-chain App Config

The on-chain app config needs to be updated in order for the changes to take
effect:

```shell
oasis rofl update
```

## Deploy to ROFL provider

Deploy the price oracle to one of the ROFL providers:

```shell
oasis rofl deploy
```

By default, the
provider maintained by the Oasis foundation will be picked.

## Check That the Oracle Contract is Getting Updated

To check whether the oracle is actually working, you can use the prepared
`oracle-query` task in the Hardhat project. Simply run:

```shell
cd oracle
npx hardhat oracle-query 0x1234845aaB7b6CD88c7fAd9E9E1cf07638805b20 --network sapphire-testnet
```

And you should get an output like the following:

```
Using oracle contract deployed at 0x1234845aaB7b6CD88c7fAd9E9E1cf07638805b20
ROFL app:  rofl1qqn9xndja7e2pnxhttktmecvwzz0yqwxsquqyxdf
Threshold: 1
Last observation: 63990
Last update at:   656
```

That's it! Your first ROFL oracle that authenticates with an Oasis Sapphire
smart contract is running! 🎉

:::example ROFL Price Oracle

You can fetch a complete example shown in this chapter from
https://github.com/oasisprotocol/demo-rofl.

Next, you can check out the [production version of the price
oracle][rofl-price-oracle] maintained by the Oasis team. This oracle is
deployed on [Mainnet] and [Testnet], supports fetching price quotes from
various CEXes in parallel, the API keys to avoid quota limits and stores the
quotes to a ChainLink-compatible smart contract on Sapphire ready to be
consumed by DeFi apps.

[Mainnet]: https://explorer.oasis.io/mainnet/sapphire/rofl/app/rofl1qph068ccezgmw25qtrv47z8ecv898wzk2g8ys99w
[Testnet]: https://explorer.oasis.io/testnet/sapphire/rofl/app/rofl1qzcaz2y24anz6qy4w8jhuc5vj9cwhek8ustkl8a7
[rofl-price-oracle]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/rofl-price-oracle

:::
