docs/dapp/opl/celer/networks.md, before:

---
description: Supported networks on Celer IM
---

# Supported Networks

## Mainnets

| Name | Int ID | Hex ID | autoswitch name |
| ---- | ------ | ------ | --------------- |
| Ape | 16350 | 0x3fde | ape |
| Arbitrum Nova | 42170 | 0xa4ba | arbitrum-nova |
| Arbitrum One | 42161 | a4b1 | arbitrum-one |
| Astar | 592 | 0x250 | astar |
| Aurora | 1313161554 | 0x4e454152 | aurora |
| Avalanche | 43114 | 0xa86a | avalanche |
| Binance Smart Chain | 56 | 0x38 | bsc |
| Ethereum | 1 | 0x1 | ethereum |
| Fantom | 250 | 0xfa | fantom |
| Filecoin | 314 | 0x13a | filecoin |
| Milkomeda C1 | 2001 | 0x7d1 | milkomeda |
| Moonriver | 1285 | 0x505 | moonriver |
| Polygon | 137 | 0x89 | polygon |
| Sapphire | 23294 | 0x5afe | sapphire |
| Syscoin | 57 | 0x39 | syscoin |
| Polygon zkEVM | 1101 | 0x44d | polygon-zkevm |
| Optimism | 10 | 0xa | optimism |
| zkSync Era | 324 | 0x144 | zksync-era |

## Testnets

| Name | Int ID | Hex ID | autoswitch name |
| ---- | ------ | ------ | --------------- |
| Avalanche C-Chain Fuji Testnet | 43113 | 0xa869 | avalanche-fuji |
| BSC Testnet | 97 | 0x61 | bsc-testnet |
| Dexalot Testnet | 432201 | 0x69849 | dexalot-testnet |
| Fantom Testnet | 4002 | 0xfa2 | fantom-testnet |
| FNCY Testnet | 923018 | 0xe158a | fncy-testnet |
| Godwoken Testnet | 71401 | 0x116e9 | godwoken-testnet |
| Sapphire Testnet | 23295 | 0x5aff | sapphire-testnet |
| Scroll Alpha Testnet | 534353 | 0x82751 | scroll-testnet |
| Shibuya Testnet | 81 | 0x51 | shibuya-testnet |

Commit message:

docs: Add notice for Celer IM on testnet

docs/dapp/opl/celer/networks.md, after:

---
description: Supported networks on Celer IM
---

# Supported Networks

## Mainnets

| Name | Int ID | Hex ID | autoswitch name |
| ---- | ------ | ------ | --------------- |
| Ape | 16350 | 0x3fde | ape |
| Arbitrum Nova | 42170 | 0xa4ba | arbitrum-nova |
| Arbitrum One | 42161 | a4b1 | arbitrum-one |
| Astar | 592 | 0x250 | astar |
| Aurora | 1313161554 | 0x4e454152 | aurora |
| Avalanche | 43114 | 0xa86a | avalanche |
| Binance Smart Chain | 56 | 0x38 | bsc |
| Ethereum | 1 | 0x1 | ethereum |
| Fantom | 250 | 0xfa | fantom |
| Filecoin | 314 | 0x13a | filecoin |
| Milkomeda C1 | 2001 | 0x7d1 | milkomeda |
| Moonriver | 1285 | 0x505 | moonriver |
| Polygon | 137 | 0x89 | polygon |
| Sapphire | 23294 | 0x5afe | sapphire |
| Syscoin | 57 | 0x39 | syscoin |
| Polygon zkEVM | 1101 | 0x44d | polygon-zkevm |
| Optimism | 10 | 0xa | optimism |
| zkSync Era | 324 | 0x144 | zksync-era |

## Testnets

:::info

Oasis operates an IM [executor] supporting Avalanche and BSC testnets. You may
need to deploy your own while developing on another Celer supported network.

:::

[executor]: ../celer/README.md#executor

| Name | Int ID | Hex ID | autoswitch name |
| ---- | ------ | ------ | --------------- |
| Avalanche C-Chain Fuji Testnet | 43113 | 0xa869 | avalanche-fuji |
| BSC Testnet | 97 | 0x61 | bsc-testnet |
| Dexalot Testnet | 432201 | 0x69849 | dexalot-testnet |
| Fantom Testnet | 4002 | 0xfa2 | fantom-testnet |
| FNCY Testnet | 923018 | 0xe158a | fncy-testnet |
| Godwoken Testnet | 71401 | 0x116e9 | godwoken-testnet |
| Sapphire Testnet | 23295 | 0x5aff | sapphire-testnet |
| Scroll Alpha Testnet | 534353 | 0x82751 | scroll-testnet |
| Shibuya Testnet | 81 | 0x51 | shibuya-testnet |
