docs/general/run-a-node/node-operator-overview.mdx, before:

import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';
import {findSidebarItem} from '@site/src/sidebarUtils';

# Overview

The following documentation is intended to assist any individual or 
organization in participating in the Oasis network as a node operator. To join 
the network we recommend you first try running a node on the Testnet. The 
Testnet is a playground where you can learn and experiment without the risk 
of losing real tokens. 

[Oasis Network] consists of the Consensus Layer and ParaTimes. Consensus and 
ParaTime nodes can be operated by anyone.

:::info

Consensus Layer is a decentralised set of 120 validator nodes that are a 
backbone of the Oasis Network. The current validator set size is determined by 
governance - the network started with 80 nodes in the validator set in 2020 and 
has expanded to 120 nodes over the past few network upgrades. Current node 
operators can be seen on a block explorer such as [Oasis Scan].

:::

:::info

Operating a ParaTime Node on the Mainnet requires the participation of node 
operators who have the validator node in the active validator set. ParaTimes 
have their own reward system, participation requirements and structure. As a 
node operator you can participate in any number of ParaTimes.

:::

If you have any questions about running a node you can find us on [Discord].

[Oasis Network]: ../oasis-network/overview.md
[Oasis Scan]: https://www.oasisscan.com/validators
[Discord]: https://discord.gg/RwNTK8t

## Set Up Your Node overview

To run a **Validator node**, make sure your system meets the [Hardware] and the 
[System] prerequisites and has [Oasis Node] installed.

Then proceed by following the [Run a Validator Node] guide to:

* Create your entity.
* Initialize and configure your node.
* Put enough stake in your escrow account.
* Register your entity on the network.

To run a **ParaTime node** make sure to first set up a Validator node. Then set 
up a [Trusted Execution Environment (TEE)]. After that proceed to the [Run a 
ParaTime node].

[Hardware]: ./prerequisites/hardware-recommendations.md
[System]: ./prerequisites/system-configuration.mdx
[Oasis Node]: ./prerequisites/oasis-node.md
[Run a Validator Node]: ./set-up-your-node/run-validator.md
[Trusted Execution Environment (TEE)]: ./prerequisites/set-up-trusted-execution-environment-tee.md
[Run a ParaTime node]: ./set-up-your-node/run-a-paratime-node.mdx

## Quick Navigation

<DocCardList items={[
    findSidebarItem('/general/run-a-node/prerequisites'),
    findSidebarItem('run-a-node/upgrade-log'),
    findSidebarItem('run-a-node/set-up-your-node/run-validator'),
    findSidebarItem('run-a-node/set-up-your-node/run-non-validator'),
]} />

Commit message:

docs: Add info about building a service

docs/general/run-a-node/node-operator-overview.mdx, after:

import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';
import {findSidebarItem} from '@site/src/sidebarUtils';

# Overview

The following documentation is intended to assist any individual or 
organization in participating in the Oasis network as a node operator. To join 
the network we recommend you first try running a node on the Testnet. The 
Testnet is a playground where you can learn and experiment without the risk 
of losing real tokens. 

[Oasis Network] consists of the Consensus Layer and ParaTimes. Consensus and 
ParaTime nodes can be operated by anyone.

:::info

Consensus Layer is a decentralised set of 120 validator nodes that are a 
backbone of the Oasis Network. The current validator set size is determined by 
governance - the network started with 80 nodes in the validator set in 2020 and 
has expanded to 120 nodes over the past few network upgrades. Current node 
operators can be seen on a block explorer such as [Oasis Scan].

:::

:::info

Operating a ParaTime Node on the Mainnet requires the participation of node 
operators who have the validator node in the active validator set. ParaTimes 
have their own reward system, participation requirements and structure. As a 
node operator you can participate in any number of ParaTimes.

:::

If you have any questions about running a node you can find us on [Discord].

[Oasis Network]: ../oasis-network/overview.md
[Oasis Scan]: https://www.oasisscan.com/validators
[Discord]: https://discord.gg/RwNTK8t

## Set Up Your Node overview

To run a **Validator node**, make sure your system meets the [Hardware] and the 
[System] prerequisites and has [Oasis Node] installed.

Then proceed by following the [Run a Validator Node] guide to:

* Create your entity.
* Initialize and configure your node.
* Put enough stake in your escrow account.
* Register your entity on the network.

To run a **ParaTime node** make sure to first set up a Validator node. Then set 
up a [Trusted Execution Environment (TEE)]. After that proceed to the [Run a 
ParaTime node].

If you are building a service on top of the Oasis Network, we suggest
that you set up a [non-validator node] and (optionally) a [ParaTime client
node], so your service do not depend on third party endpoints which are
often behind a traffic limiter.

[Hardware]: ./prerequisites/hardware-recommendations.md
[System]: ./prerequisites/system-configuration.mdx
[Oasis Node]: ./prerequisites/oasis-node.md
[Run a Validator Node]: ./set-up-your-node/run-validator.md
[Trusted Execution Environment (TEE)]: ./prerequisites/set-up-trusted-execution-environment-tee.md
[Run a ParaTime node]: ./set-up-your-node/run-a-paratime-node.mdx
[ParaTime client node]: ./set-up-your-node/run-a-paratime-node.mdx
[non-validator node]: ./set-up-your-node/run-non-validator.md

## Quick Navigation

<DocCardList items={[
    findSidebarItem('/general/run-a-node/prerequisites'),
    findSidebarItem('run-a-node/upgrade-log'),
    findSidebarItem('run-a-node/set-up-your-node/run-validator'),
    findSidebarItem('run-a-node/set-up-your-node/run-non-validator'),
]} />
