docs/dapp/emerald/writing-dapps-on-emerald.mdx, before:

import DocCard from '@theme/DocCard';
import {findSidebarItem} from '@site/src/sidebarUtils';

# Writing dApps on Emerald

This tutorial will show you how to set up dApp development environment for
Emerald to be able to write and deploy dApps on Oasis Emerald.

We will walk you through the Hardhat configuration and - for those who prefer
a simpler web-only interface - the Remix IDE.
Oasis Emerald exposes an EVM-compatible interface so writing dApps isn't much
different compared to the original Ethereum Network!

## Oasis Consensus Layer and Emerald ParaTime

Oasis Network consists of the consensus layer and a number of Layer 2 chains
called the ParaTimes (to learn more, check the [Oasis Network
Overview][overview] chapter). Emerald is a ParaTime which implements the Ethereum
Virtual Machine (EVM).

The minimum and also expected block time in Emerald is **6 seconds**. Any
Emerald transaction will require at least this amount of time to be executed.

The native Oasis addresses are Bech32-encoded (e.g. `oasis1qpupfu7e2n6pkezeaw0yhj8mcem8anj64ytrayne`)
while Emerald supports both the Bech32-encoded and the Ethereum-compatible
hex-encoded addresses (e.g. `0x90adE3B7065fa715c7a150313877dF1d33e777D5`). The
underlying algorithm for signing the transactions is [Ed25519] on the Consensus
layer and both [Ed25519] and [ECDSA] in Emerald. The Ed25519 scheme is used
mostly by the Emerald compute nodes for managing their computation rewards. For
signing your dApp-related transactions on Emerald you will probably want to use
ECDSA since this is the de facto scheme supported by Ethereum wallets and
libraries.

Finally, the ParaTimes are not allowed to directly access your tokens stored in
Consensus layer addresses. You will need to **deposit** tokens from your consensus
account to Emerald. Consult the [How to transfer ROSE into Emerald
ParaTime][how-to-deposit-rose] chapter to learn more.


[overview]: ../../general/oasis-network/README.mdx
[Ed25519]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/EdDSA#Ed25519
[ECDSA]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elliptic_Curve_Digital_Signature_Algorithm
[how-to-deposit-rose]: ../../general/manage-tokens/how-to-transfer-rose-into-paratime.mdx
[Testnet faucet]: https://faucet.testnet.oasis.dev/

## Testnet and Mainnet

The Oasis Network currently has, similar to some other blockchains, two major
public deployments: the [Mainnet][network-parameters] and the [Testnet]. The
native tokens are called ROSE and TEST respectively. Each deployment has its own
state, a different set of validators and ParaTimes. The state of the Mainnet is
considered immutable for indefinite time, while the data on the Testnet can be
subject to wipe in the future.

The Emerald ParaTime is deployed similarly: the [Emerald Mainnet] is deployed on the Oasis Mainnet
Network while the [Emerald Testnet] on the Oasis Testnet Network. The Emerald state on the Mainnet
is stable. Testnet, apart from running the unstable version of the code and being prone to bugs, can
have the state deliberately wiped either on the Emerald ParaTime layer or on the Oasis Testnet
Network level.

:::danger Never deploy production service on Testnet

Because Testnet state can be wiped in the future, you should **never deploy a
production service on the Testnet**!

:::

:::tip

For testing purposes, visit our [Testnet faucet] to obtain some TEST which you
can then use on the Emerald Testnet to pay for gas fees. The faucet supports
sending TEST both to your Consensus layer address or to your address inside the
ParaTime.

:::

[network-parameters]: ../../node/mainnet/README.md
[Testnet]: ../../node/testnet/README.md
[Emerald Mainnet]: ./README.mdx#mainnet
[Emerald Testnet]: ./README.mdx#testnet

## Running a Private Oasis Network Locally

For convenient development and testing of your dApps the Oasis team prepared
the [ghcr.io/oasisprotocol/emerald-dev][emerald-dev] Docker image which brings you a complete Oasis
stack to your desktop. This network is isolated from the Mainnet or Testnet and
consists of:

- single Oasis validator node with 1-second block time and 30-second epoch,
- single Oasis client node,
- three compute nodes running Oasis Emerald,
- PostgreSQL instance,
- Oasis Web3 gateway with transaction indexer,
- helper script which populates initial test accounts for you.

To run the image, execute:

```sh
docker run -it -p8545:8545 -p8546:8546 ghcr.io/oasisprotocol/emerald-dev
```

After a while, the tool will show you something like this:

```
emerald-dev 2023-02-28-git84730b2 (oasis-core: 22.2.6, emerald-paratime: 10.0.0, oasis-web3-gateway: 3.2.0-git84730b2)

Starting oasis-net-runner with emerald...
Starting postgresql...
Starting oasis-web3-gateway...
Bootstrapping network and populating account(s) (this might take a minute)...

Available Accounts
==================
(0) 0x75eCF0d4496C2f10e4e9aF3D4d174576Ee9010E2 (100 ROSE)
(1) 0x903a7dce5a26a3f4DE2d157606c2191740Bc4BC9 (100 ROSE)
(2) 0xF149ad5CBFfD92ba84F5784106f6Cb071A32a1b8 (100 ROSE)
(3) 0x2315F40C1122400Df55483743B051D2997ef0a62 (100 ROSE)
(4) 0xf6FdcacbA93A428A07d27dacEf1fBF25E2C65B0F (100 ROSE)

Private Keys
==================
(0) 0x160f52faa5c0aecfa26c793424a04d53cbf23dcad5901ce15b50c2e85b9d6ca7
(1) 0x0ba685723b47d8e744b1b70a9bea9d4d968f60205385ae9de99865174c1af110
(2) 0xfa990cf0c22af455d2734c879a2a844ff99bd779b400bb0e2919758d1be284b5
(3) 0x3bf225ef73b1b56b03ceec8bb4dfb4830b662b073b312beb7e7fec3159b1bb4f
(4) 0xad0dd7ceb896fd5f5ddc76d56e54ee6d5c2a3ffeac7714d3ef544d3d6262512c

HD Wallet
==================
Mnemonic:       bench remain brave curve frozen verify dream margin alarm world repair innocent
Base HD Path:   m/44'/60'/0'/0/%d

WARNING: The chain is running in ephemeral mode. State will be lost after restart!

Listening on http://localhost:8545 and ws://localhost:8546
```

Those familiar with local dApp environments will find the output above similar
to `geth --dev` or `ganache-cli` commands or the `geth-dev-assistant` npm
package. [emerald-dev] will spin up a private Oasis Network locally, generate
and populate test accounts and make the following Web3 endpoints available for
you to use:
- `http://localhost:8545`
- `ws://localhost:8546`

:::tip

If you prefer using the same mnemonics each time (e.g. for testing purposes)
or to populate just a single wallet, use `-to` flag and pass the mnemonics or
the wallet addresses. For example

```sh
docker run -it -p8545:8545 -p8546:8546 ghcr.io/oasisprotocol/emerald-dev -to "bench remain brave curve frozen verify dream margin alarm world repair innocent"
docker run -it -p8545:8545 -p8546:8546 ghcr.io/oasisprotocol/emerald-dev -to "0x75eCF0d4496C2f10e4e9aF3D4d174576Ee9010E2,0xbDA5747bFD65F08deb54cb465eB87D40e51B197E"
```

:::

:::danger

[emerald-dev] runs in ephemeral mode. Any smart contract and wallet balance
will be lost after you quit the Docker container!

:::

[emerald-dev]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/oasis-web3-gateway/pkgs/container/emerald-dev

## Create dApp on Emerald with Hardhat

Let's begin writing our dApp with Hardhat. We will lay out a base for a modern
dApp including TypeScript bindings for tests and later for the frontend
application.

First, make sure you installed [Node.js] and that you have `npm` and `npx`
readily available. Then run:

```
npx hardhat init
```

Select the `Create an advanced sample project that uses TypeScript` option and
enter the root directory for your project. You can leave other options as
default. After a while Hardhat will finish downloading the dependencies and
create a simple greeter dApp.

To compile, deploy and test the smart contract of your sample project locally,
move to your project directory and type:

```
$ npx hardhat compile
Compiling 2 files with 0.8.4
Generating typings for: 2 artifacts in dir: typechain for target: ethers-v5
Successfully generated 5 typings!
Compilation finished successfully

$ npx hardhat test
No need to generate any newer typings.


  Greeter
Deploying an Emerald Greeter with greeting: Hello, world!
Changing greeting from 'Hello, world!' to 'Hola, mundo!'
    ✓ Should return the new greeting once it's changed (613ms)


  1 passing (614ms)
```

Hardhat already comes with a built-in EVM which is spun up from scratch each
time we call `hardhat test` without parameters. It populates 20 accounts with
ETH and registers them to the [ethers.js] instance used in the tests.

Next, let's look at how to configure Hardhat for Emerald. For convenience, we
assign the `PRIVATE_KEY` environment variable a hex-encoded private key of your
Emerald wallet containing tokens to pay for gas fees. If you are running
[emerald-dev], use any of the five generated private keys.

```
export PRIVATE_KEY="YOUR_0x_EMERALD_PRIVATE_KEY"
```

Next, we configure three networks: `emerald_local`, `emerald_testnet`, and
`emerald_mainnet`. Open `hardhat.config.ts` and replace the `networks` field to
match the following:

```
networks: {
    emerald_local: {
      url: "http://localhost:8545",
      accounts:
        process.env.PRIVATE_KEY !== undefined ? [process.env.PRIVATE_KEY] : [],
    },
    emerald_testnet: {
      url: "https://testnet.emerald.oasis.dev",
      accounts:
        process.env.PRIVATE_KEY !== undefined ? [process.env.PRIVATE_KEY] : [],
    },
    emerald_mainnet: {
      url: "https://emerald.oasis.dev",
      accounts:
        process.env.PRIVATE_KEY !== undefined ? [process.env.PRIVATE_KEY] : [],
    },
  },
```

Next, we increase the default timeout for mocha tests from 20 seconds to 60
seconds. This step is not needed, if you will test your contracts solely on
[emerald-dev], but is required for Testnet to avoid timeouts. Append the
following block to the `config` object:

```
mocha: {
  timeout: 60000
}
```

:::info

`geth --dev` and `ganache-cli` tools use a so-called "instant mining" mode.
In this mode, a new block is mined immediately when a new transaction occurs in
the mempool. Neither Oasis Mainnet and Testnet Networks nor [emerald-dev]
support such mode and the new block will always be mined at least after the 1
second block time elapsed.

:::

Now deploy the contract to the local [emerald-dev] Docker container by
selecting the `emerald_local` network we configured above and run the tests:

```
$ npx hardhat run scripts/deploy.ts --network emerald_local
No need to generate any newer typings.
Greeter deployed to: 0x4e1de2f6cf4e57a8f55b4a5dd1fce770db734962

$ npx hardhat test --network emerald_local
No need to generate any newer typings.


  Greeter
    ✓ Should return the new greeting once it's changed (6017ms)


  1 passing (6s)
```

Next, you can try deploying the contract to the Testnet. Temporarily replace
your `PRIVATE_KEY` environment variable with your Testnet one and deploy the
contract by using the `emerald_testnet` network. Similarly, you can also
run the tests.

```
$ PRIVATE_KEY="0xYOUR_TESTNET_PRIVATE_KEY" npx hardhat run scripts/deploy.ts --network emerald_testnet
No need to generate any newer typings.
Greeter deployed to: 0x735df9F166a2715bCA3D3A66B119CBef95a0D129

$ PRIVATE_KEY="0xYOUR_TESTNET_PRIVATE_KEY" npx hardhat test --network emerald_testnet
No need to generate any newer typings.


  Greeter
    ✓ Should return the new greeting once it's changed (21016ms)


  1 passing (6s)
```

Congratulations, you have just deployed your first smart contract to the public
Emerald Testnet Network! If you are unsure, whether your contract was
successfully deployed, you can monitor the transactions on the Emerald block
explorer ([Mainnet][mainnet-explorer], [Testnet][testnet-explorer]). This tool
indexes all Emerald accounts, blocks, transactions and even offers a neat user
interface for browsing ETH-specifics like the ERC20 tokens and the ERC721 NFTs.

![Emerald Block Explorer showing the latest transactions](../images/emerald/block_explorer1.png)

![Emerald Block Explorer showing our account 0x90adE3B7065fa715c7a150313877dF1d33e777D5 used for deploying the smart contract](../images/emerald/block_explorer2.png)

Finally, by selecting the `emerald_mainnet` network and the corresponding
private key, we can deploy the contract on the Mainnet:

```
$ PRIVATE_KEY="0xYOUR_MAINNET_PRIVATE_KEY" npx hardhat run scripts/deploy.ts --network emerald_mainnet
No need to generate any newer typings.
Greeter deployed to: 0x6e8e9e0DBCa4EF4a65eBCBe4032e7C2a6fb7C623
```

[Node.js]: https://nodejs.org
[ethers.js]: https://docs.ethers.io/v5/

## Create dApp on Emerald with Remix - Ethereum IDE

[Remix] is a popular web IDE for swift development, deployment and testing
smart contracts on the Ethereum Network. We will use it in combination with
MetaMask to access the network settings and your wallet to sign and submit the
transactions.

If you haven't done it yet, first [install the MetaMask extension for your
browser][metamask]. Import your wallet and configure Emerald Testnet and
Mainnet Networks. If you wish to connect to [emerald-dev] container, configure
the local network as well.

When you open Remix for the first time, it automatically creates an example
project. Let's open one of the contracts and compile it in the "Solidity
compiler" tab.

![The initial example project in Remix - Ethereum IDE](../images/emerald/remix1.png)

![Solidity compiler tab](../images/emerald/remix2.png)

Next, in the "Deploy and Run Transactions" tab, select the "Injected Web3"
environment. A MetaMask popup will appear and you will have to connect one or
more accounts with Remix. Once the connection succeeds, click on the "Deploy"
button. The MetaMask popup appears again and you will have to review the
transaction, the gas options and finally confirm the transaction.

![Metamask transaction confirmation](../images/emerald/remix3.png)

If everything goes well, your transaction will be deployed using the selected
account in the MetaMask and the corresponding Emerald Network.

![Successful contract deployment on Emerald Testnet with Remix](../images/emerald/remix4.png)

:::info

Sometimes the gas limit estimation function might compute a slightly lower
value from the required one. In this case, try increasing the gas limit
manually by 10% or 20%.

:::

Congratulations! Now you can start developing your own smart contracts on the
Oasis Emerald blockchain! Should you have any questions, do not hesitate to
share them with us on the [#emerald-paratime Discord channel][discord].

[Remix]: https://remix.ethereum.org
[metamask]: ../../general/manage-tokens/how-to-transfer-rose-into-paratime.mdx#verifying-rose-balance-on-paratime
[discord]: https://oasis.io/discord

## Troubleshooting

### Truffle Support

:::info Sunsetting Truffle

Per Consensys [announcement], Oasis will no longer support Truffle as of
2023-10-05 and encourage immediate [migration] to Hardhat. Please see our
repository for the archived Truffle [tutorial].

:::

[announcement]: https://consensys.io/blog/consensys-announces-the-sunset-of-truffle-and-ganache-and-new-hardhat
[migration]: https://trufflesuite.com/docs/truffle/how-to/migrate-to-hardhat/
[tutorial]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/docs/blob/207a7b1a42b4afdac70b925e755f5546723e4831/docs/dapp/emerald/writing-dapps-on-emerald.mdx#L330-L570

### Deployment of my contract timed out on Testnet or Mainnet

Emerald validators, similar to Ethereum ones, order the execution of
transactions by gas price. When deploying a contract and the deployment times
out, first wait another few rounds to make sure that the contract will not be
deployed eventually.

Next, check that your `gasPrice` **is at least 10 nROSE** which is a minimum
required gas price on Emerald. This value should already be propagated
automatically by the web3 endpoint, but your deployment configuration might
have ignored it.

Finally, consider increasing the `gasPrice` parameter in the Hardhat config
file by a fraction (e.g. 10% or 20%). This will require more ROSE from your
wallet to deploy the contract, but you will also increase the chance of your
transaction being included in the block.

### Execution of my contract failed. How do I debug what went wrong?

If you are using Testnet or Mainnet, try to debug your transaction by finding
it on the Emerald block explorer ([Mainnet][mainnet-explorer], [Testnet][testnet-explorer]):

![Emerald block explorer showing a failed transaction](../images/emerald/oasisscan1.png)

In some cases, the transaction result on Emerald block explorer might be stuck
at `Error: (Awaiting internal transactions for reason)`. In this case or in
case of other Consensus layer ↔ ParaTime issues, try to find your Emerald
transaction on the Oasis Scan ([Mainnet][mainnet-oasisscan],
[Testnet][testnet-oasisscan]) which is primarily a Consensus layer explorer, but
offers some introspection into ParaTime transactions as well. Once you find your
failed Emerald transaction, the `Status` field should contain a more verbose
error description, for example:

![Oasis Scan showing the Out of gas error for a transaction on Emerald](../images/emerald/oasisscan2.png)

## See also

<DocCard item={findSidebarItem('/node/run-your-node/paratime-client-node')} />
<DocCard item={findSidebarItem('/node/web3')} />


[mainnet-explorer]: https://explorer.emerald.oasis.dev
[testnet-explorer]: https://testnet.explorer.emerald.oasis.dev
[mainnet-oasisscan]: https://oasisscan.com
[testnet-oasisscan]: https://testnet.oasisscan.com

Commit message:

docs: Rename emerald-dev to emerald-localnet

docs/dapp/emerald/writing-dapps-on-emerald.mdx, after:

import DocCard from '@theme/DocCard';
import {findSidebarItem} from '@site/src/sidebarUtils';

# Writing dApps on Emerald

This tutorial will show you how to set up dApp development environment for
Emerald to be able to write and deploy dApps on Oasis Emerald.

We will walk you through the Hardhat configuration and - for those who prefer
a simpler web-only interface - the Remix IDE.
Oasis Emerald exposes an EVM-compatible interface so writing dApps isn't much
different compared to the original Ethereum Network!

## Oasis Consensus Layer and Emerald ParaTime

Oasis Network consists of the consensus layer and a number of Layer 2 chains
called the ParaTimes (to learn more, check the [Oasis Network
Overview][overview] chapter). Emerald is a ParaTime which implements the Ethereum
Virtual Machine (EVM).

The minimum and also expected block time in Emerald is **6 seconds**. Any
Emerald transaction will require at least this amount of time to be executed.

The native Oasis addresses are Bech32-encoded (e.g. `oasis1qpupfu7e2n6pkezeaw0yhj8mcem8anj64ytrayne`)
while Emerald supports both the Bech32-encoded and the Ethereum-compatible
hex-encoded addresses (e.g. `0x90adE3B7065fa715c7a150313877dF1d33e777D5`). The
underlying algorithm for signing the transactions is [Ed25519] on the Consensus
layer and both [Ed25519] and [ECDSA] in Emerald. The Ed25519 scheme is used
mostly by the Emerald compute nodes for managing their computation rewards. For
signing your dApp-related transactions on Emerald you will probably want to use
ECDSA since this is the de facto scheme supported by Ethereum wallets and
libraries.

Finally, the ParaTimes are not allowed to directly access your tokens stored in
Consensus layer addresses. You will need to **deposit** tokens from your consensus
account to Emerald. Consult the [How to transfer ROSE into Emerald
ParaTime][how-to-deposit-rose] chapter to learn more.


[overview]: ../../general/oasis-network/README.mdx
[Ed25519]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/EdDSA#Ed25519
[ECDSA]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elliptic_Curve_Digital_Signature_Algorithm
[how-to-deposit-rose]: ../../general/manage-tokens/how-to-transfer-rose-into-paratime.mdx
[Testnet faucet]: https://faucet.testnet.oasis.dev/

## Testnet and Mainnet

The Oasis Network currently has, similar to some other blockchains, two major
public deployments: the [Mainnet][network-parameters] and the [Testnet]. The
native tokens are called ROSE and TEST respectively. Each deployment has its own
state, a different set of validators and ParaTimes. The state of the Mainnet is
considered immutable for indefinite time, while the data on the Testnet can be
subject to wipe in the future.

The Emerald ParaTime is deployed similarly: the [Emerald Mainnet] is deployed on the Oasis Mainnet
Network while the [Emerald Testnet] on the Oasis Testnet Network. The Emerald state on the Mainnet
is stable. Testnet, apart from running the unstable version of the code and being prone to bugs, can
have the state deliberately wiped either on the Emerald ParaTime layer or on the Oasis Testnet
Network level.

:::danger Never deploy production service on Testnet

Because Testnet state can be wiped in the future, you should **never deploy a
production service on the Testnet**!

:::

:::tip

For testing purposes, visit our [Testnet faucet] to obtain some TEST which you
can then use on the Emerald Testnet to pay for gas fees. The faucet supports
sending TEST both to your Consensus layer address or to your address inside the
ParaTime.

:::

[network-parameters]: ../../node/mainnet/README.md
[Testnet]: ../../node/testnet/README.md
[Emerald Mainnet]: ./README.mdx#mainnet
[Emerald Testnet]: ./README.mdx#testnet

## Running a Private Oasis Network Locally

For convenient development and testing of your dApps the Oasis team prepared
the [ghcr.io/oasisprotocol/emerald-localnet][emerald-localnet] Docker image which brings you a complete Oasis
stack to your desktop. This network is isolated from the Mainnet or Testnet and
consists of:

- single Oasis validator node with 1-second block time and 30-second epoch,
- single Oasis client node,
- three compute nodes running Oasis Emerald,
- PostgreSQL instance,
- Oasis Web3 gateway with transaction indexer,
- helper script which populates initial test accounts for you.

To run the image, execute:

```sh
docker run -it -p8545:8545 -p8546:8546 ghcr.io/oasisprotocol/emerald-localnet
```

After a while, the tool will show you something like this:

```
emerald-localnet 2023-02-28-git84730b2 (oasis-core: 22.2.6, emerald-paratime: 10.0.0, oasis-web3-gateway: 3.2.0-git84730b2)

Starting oasis-net-runner with emerald...
Starting postgresql...
Starting oasis-web3-gateway...
Bootstrapping network and populating account(s) (this might take a minute)...

Available Accounts
==================
(0) 0x75eCF0d4496C2f10e4e9aF3D4d174576Ee9010E2 (100 ROSE)
(1) 0x903a7dce5a26a3f4DE2d157606c2191740Bc4BC9 (100 ROSE)
(2) 0xF149ad5CBFfD92ba84F5784106f6Cb071A32a1b8 (100 ROSE)
(3) 0x2315F40C1122400Df55483743B051D2997ef0a62 (100 ROSE)
(4) 0xf6FdcacbA93A428A07d27dacEf1fBF25E2C65B0F (100 ROSE)

Private Keys
==================
(0) 0x160f52faa5c0aecfa26c793424a04d53cbf23dcad5901ce15b50c2e85b9d6ca7
(1) 0x0ba685723b47d8e744b1b70a9bea9d4d968f60205385ae9de99865174c1af110
(2) 0xfa990cf0c22af455d2734c879a2a844ff99bd779b400bb0e2919758d1be284b5
(3) 0x3bf225ef73b1b56b03ceec8bb4dfb4830b662b073b312beb7e7fec3159b1bb4f
(4) 0xad0dd7ceb896fd5f5ddc76d56e54ee6d5c2a3ffeac7714d3ef544d3d6262512c

HD Wallet
==================
Mnemonic:       bench remain brave curve frozen verify dream margin alarm world repair innocent
Base HD Path:   m/44'/60'/0'/0/%d

WARNING: The chain is running in ephemeral mode. State will be lost after restart!

Listening on http://localhost:8545 and ws://localhost:8546
```

Those familiar with local dApp environments will find the output above similar
to `geth --dev` or `ganache-cli` commands or the `geth-dev-assistant` npm
package. [emerald-localnet] will spin up a private Oasis Network locally, generate
and populate test accounts and make the following Web3 endpoints available for
you to use:
- `http://localhost:8545`
- `ws://localhost:8546`

:::tip

If you prefer using the same mnemonics each time (e.g. for testing purposes)
or to populate just a single wallet, use `-to` flag and pass the mnemonics or
the wallet addresses. For example

```sh
docker run -it -p8545:8545 -p8546:8546 ghcr.io/oasisprotocol/emerald-localnet -to "bench remain brave curve frozen verify dream margin alarm world repair innocent"
docker run -it -p8545:8545 -p8546:8546 ghcr.io/oasisprotocol/emerald-localnet -to "0x75eCF0d4496C2f10e4e9aF3D4d174576Ee9010E2,0xbDA5747bFD65F08deb54cb465eB87D40e51B197E"
```

:::

:::danger

[emerald-localnet] runs in ephemeral mode. Any smart contract and wallet balance
will be lost after you quit the Docker container!

:::

[emerald-localnet]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/oasis-web3-gateway/pkgs/container/emerald-localnet

## Create dApp on Emerald with Hardhat

Let's begin writing our dApp with Hardhat. We will lay out a base for a modern
dApp including TypeScript bindings for tests and later for the frontend
application.

First, make sure you installed [Node.js] and that you have `npm` and `npx`
readily available. Then run:

```
npx hardhat init
```

Select the `Create an advanced sample project that uses TypeScript` option and
enter the root directory for your project. You can leave other options as
default. After a while Hardhat will finish downloading the dependencies and
create a simple greeter dApp.

To compile, deploy and test the smart contract of your sample project locally,
move to your project directory and type:

```
$ npx hardhat compile
Compiling 2 files with 0.8.4
Generating typings for: 2 artifacts in dir: typechain for target: ethers-v5
Successfully generated 5 typings!
Compilation finished successfully

$ npx hardhat test
No need to generate any newer typings.


  Greeter
Deploying an Emerald Greeter with greeting: Hello, world!
Changing greeting from 'Hello, world!' to 'Hola, mundo!'
    ✓ Should return the new greeting once it's changed (613ms)


  1 passing (614ms)
```

Hardhat already comes with a built-in EVM which is spun up from scratch each
time we call `hardhat test` without parameters. It populates 20 accounts with
ETH and registers them to the [ethers.js] instance used in the tests.

Next, let's look at how to configure Hardhat for Emerald. For convenience, we
assign the `PRIVATE_KEY` environment variable a hex-encoded private key of your
Emerald wallet containing tokens to pay for gas fees. If you are running
[emerald-localnet], use any of the five generated private keys.

```
export PRIVATE_KEY="YOUR_0x_EMERALD_PRIVATE_KEY"
```

Next, we configure three networks: `emerald_local`, `emerald_testnet`, and
`emerald_mainnet`. Open `hardhat.config.ts` and replace the `networks` field to
match the following:

```
networks: {
    emerald_local: {
      url: "http://localhost:8545",
      accounts:
        process.env.PRIVATE_KEY !== undefined ? [process.env.PRIVATE_KEY] : [],
    },
    emerald_testnet: {
      url: "https://testnet.emerald.oasis.dev",
      accounts:
        process.env.PRIVATE_KEY !== undefined ? [process.env.PRIVATE_KEY] : [],
    },
    emerald_mainnet: {
      url: "https://emerald.oasis.dev",
      accounts:
        process.env.PRIVATE_KEY !== undefined ? [process.env.PRIVATE_KEY] : [],
    },
  },
```

Next, we increase the default timeout for mocha tests from 20 seconds to 60
seconds. This step is not needed, if you will test your contracts solely on
[emerald-localnet], but is required for Testnet to avoid timeouts. Append the
following block to the `config` object:

```
mocha: {
  timeout: 60000
}
```

:::info

`geth --dev` and `ganache-cli` tools use a so-called "instant mining" mode.
In this mode, a new block is mined immediately when a new transaction occurs in
the mempool. Neither Oasis Mainnet and Testnet Networks nor [emerald-localnet]
support such mode and the new block will always be mined at least after the 1
second block time elapsed.

:::

Now deploy the contract to the local [emerald-localnet] Docker container by
selecting the `emerald_local` network we configured above and run the tests:

```
$ npx hardhat run scripts/deploy.ts --network emerald_local
No need to generate any newer typings.
Greeter deployed to: 0x4e1de2f6cf4e57a8f55b4a5dd1fce770db734962

$ npx hardhat test --network emerald_local
No need to generate any newer typings.


  Greeter
    ✓ Should return the new greeting once it's changed (6017ms)


  1 passing (6s)
```

Next, you can try deploying the contract to the Testnet. Temporarily replace
your `PRIVATE_KEY` environment variable with your Testnet one and deploy the
contract by using the `emerald_testnet` network. Similarly, you can also
run the tests.

```
$ PRIVATE_KEY="0xYOUR_TESTNET_PRIVATE_KEY" npx hardhat run scripts/deploy.ts --network emerald_testnet
No need to generate any newer typings.
Greeter deployed to: 0x735df9F166a2715bCA3D3A66B119CBef95a0D129

$ PRIVATE_KEY="0xYOUR_TESTNET_PRIVATE_KEY" npx hardhat test --network emerald_testnet
No need to generate any newer typings.


  Greeter
    ✓ Should return the new greeting once it's changed (21016ms)


  1 passing (6s)
```

Congratulations, you have just deployed your first smart contract to the public
Emerald Testnet Network! If you are unsure, whether your contract was
successfully deployed, you can monitor the transactions on the Emerald block
explorer ([Mainnet][mainnet-explorer], [Testnet][testnet-explorer]). This tool
indexes all Emerald accounts, blocks, transactions and even offers a neat user
interface for browsing ETH-specifics like the ERC20 tokens and the ERC721 NFTs.

![Emerald Block Explorer showing the latest transactions](../images/emerald/block_explorer1.png)

![Emerald Block Explorer showing our account 0x90adE3B7065fa715c7a150313877dF1d33e777D5 used for deploying the smart contract](../images/emerald/block_explorer2.png)

Finally, by selecting the `emerald_mainnet` network and the corresponding
private key, we can deploy the contract on the Mainnet:

```
$ PRIVATE_KEY="0xYOUR_MAINNET_PRIVATE_KEY" npx hardhat run scripts/deploy.ts --network emerald_mainnet
No need to generate any newer typings.
Greeter deployed to: 0x6e8e9e0DBCa4EF4a65eBCBe4032e7C2a6fb7C623
```

[Node.js]: https://nodejs.org
[ethers.js]: https://docs.ethers.io/v5/

## Create dApp on Emerald with Remix - Ethereum IDE

[Remix] is a popular web IDE for swift development, deployment and testing
smart contracts on the Ethereum Network. We will use it in combination with
MetaMask to access the network settings and your wallet to sign and submit the
transactions.

If you haven't done it yet, first [install the MetaMask extension for your
browser][metamask]. Import your wallet and configure Emerald Testnet and
Mainnet Networks. If you wish to connect to [emerald-localnet] container, configure
the local network as well.

When you open Remix for the first time, it automatically creates an example
project. Let's open one of the contracts and compile it in the "Solidity
compiler" tab.

![The initial example project in Remix - Ethereum IDE](../images/emerald/remix1.png)

![Solidity compiler tab](../images/emerald/remix2.png)

Next, in the "Deploy and Run Transactions" tab, select the "Injected Web3"
environment. A MetaMask popup will appear and you will have to connect one or
more accounts with Remix. Once the connection succeeds, click on the "Deploy"
button. The MetaMask popup appears again and you will have to review the
transaction, the gas options and finally confirm the transaction.

![Metamask transaction confirmation](../images/emerald/remix3.png)

If everything goes well, your transaction will be deployed using the selected
account in the MetaMask and the corresponding Emerald Network.

![Successful contract deployment on Emerald Testnet with Remix](../images/emerald/remix4.png)

:::info

Sometimes the gas limit estimation function might compute a slightly lower
value from the required one. In this case, try increasing the gas limit
manually by 10% or 20%.

:::

Congratulations! Now you can start developing your own smart contracts on the
Oasis Emerald blockchain! Should you have any questions, do not hesitate to
share them with us on the [#emerald-paratime Discord channel][discord].

[Remix]: https://remix.ethereum.org
[metamask]: ../../general/manage-tokens/how-to-transfer-rose-into-paratime.mdx#verifying-rose-balance-on-paratime
[discord]: https://oasis.io/discord

## Troubleshooting

### Truffle Support

:::info Sunsetting Truffle

Per Consensys [announcement], Oasis will no longer support Truffle as of
2023-10-05 and encourage immediate [migration] to Hardhat. Please see our
repository for the archived Truffle [tutorial].

:::

[announcement]: https://consensys.io/blog/consensys-announces-the-sunset-of-truffle-and-ganache-and-new-hardhat
[migration]: https://trufflesuite.com/docs/truffle/how-to/migrate-to-hardhat/
[tutorial]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/docs/blob/207a7b1a42b4afdac70b925e755f5546723e4831/docs/dapp/emerald/writing-dapps-on-emerald.mdx#L330-L570

### Deployment of my contract timed out on Testnet or Mainnet

Emerald validators, similar to Ethereum ones, order the execution of
transactions by gas price. When deploying a contract and the deployment times
out, first wait another few rounds to make sure that the contract will not be
deployed eventually.

Next, check that your `gasPrice` **is at least 10 nROSE** which is a minimum
required gas price on Emerald. This value should already be propagated
automatically by the web3 endpoint, but your deployment configuration might
have ignored it.

Finally, consider increasing the `gasPrice` parameter in the Hardhat config
file by a fraction (e.g. 10% or 20%). This will require more ROSE from your
wallet to deploy the contract, but you will also increase the chance of your
transaction being included in the block.

### Execution of my contract failed. How do I debug what went wrong?

If you are using Testnet or Mainnet, try to debug your transaction by finding
it on the Emerald block explorer ([Mainnet][mainnet-explorer], [Testnet][testnet-explorer]):

![Emerald block explorer showing a failed transaction](../images/emerald/oasisscan1.png)

In some cases, the transaction result on Emerald block explorer might be stuck
at `Error: (Awaiting internal transactions for reason)`. In this case or in
case of other Consensus layer ↔ ParaTime issues, try to find your Emerald
transaction on the Oasis Scan ([Mainnet][mainnet-oasisscan],
[Testnet][testnet-oasisscan]) which is primarily a Consensus layer explorer, but
offers some introspection into ParaTime transactions as well. Once you find your
failed Emerald transaction, the `Status` field should contain a more verbose
error description, for example:

![Oasis Scan showing the Out of gas error for a transaction on Emerald](../images/emerald/oasisscan2.png)

## See also

<DocCard item={findSidebarItem('/node/run-your-node/paratime-client-node')} />
<DocCard item={findSidebarItem('/node/web3')} />


[mainnet-explorer]: https://explorer.emerald.oasis.dev
[testnet-explorer]: https://testnet.explorer.emerald.oasis.dev
[mainnet-oasisscan]: https://oasisscan.com
[testnet-oasisscan]: https://testnet.oasisscan.com
