docs/dapp/README.mdx, before:

---
description: Home of the Oasis dApp developer resources
---

import DocCard from '@theme/DocCard';
import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';
import {findSidebarItem} from '@site/src/sidebarUtils';

# Create dApp

![Oasis architectural design including ParaTime and consensus layers](../general/images/architecture/technology_scalability.svg)

The [Oasis architecture] is designed to have a simple, robust consensus layer
on top which connects handful of ParaTimes executing smart contracts.
DApp developers may choose among those ParaTimes depending on whether they
require confidentiality and/or EVM-compatibility.

Learn more by exploring the ParaTimes below!

|                      | EVM-compatible                                        | Oasis Wasm                                          |
|---------------------:|-------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|
| **Confidential**     | <DocCard item={findSidebarItem('/dapp/sapphire/')} /> | <DocCard item={findSidebarItem('/dapp/cipher/')} /> |
| **Non-Confidential** | <DocCard item={findSidebarItem('/dapp/emerald/')} />  |                                                     |

[Oasis architecture]: ../general/oasis-network/README.mdx

In addition to building fully native dApps running on one of the Oasis
ParaTimes, you can also add privacy to your existing dApps running on other,
non-confidential chains, and only use Oasis as a *privacy service*.

The Oasis team prepared a rich cross-chain toolkit called the
[**Oasis Privacy Layer**](opl/README.mdx). It consists of solidity precompiles
integrating bridges and wrapping the OpenZeppelin ERC2771 contract on top of
Sapphire, demonstrates best practices for writing confidential smart contracts
and working examples for you to explore and extend.

<DocCard item={findSidebarItem('/dapp/opl/')} />

## Consensus Layer RPC Endpoints

:::danger

The RPC endpoint is a **point of trust**. Beside rate limiting, it can also
perform censorship or even man-in-the-middle attack. If you have security
considerations, we strongly recommend that you [run your own client
node][non-validator-node],

:::

[non-validator-node]: ../node/run-your-node/non-validator-node.mdx

Most dApp developers will build dApps on the ParaTime layer (the *compute*
layer) depicted above. For Sapphire and Emerald which are EVM-compatible chains,
those dApps connect directly to an [EVM-compatible Web3 endpoint][web3].
However, if you are building a dApp for Cipher or the one that needs to
perform consensus operations such as the consensus-layer token transfers,
governance transactions, cross-chain ParaTime deposits and withdrawals and
similar, you will need to connect to the one of the endpoints speaking
[Oasis gRPC][grpc].

Public gRPC endpoints (in alphabetic order):

| Provider                    | Mainnet URL         | Testnet URL                 |
|-----------------------------|---------------------|-----------------------------|
| [Oasis Protocol Foundation] | `grpc.oasis.io:443` | `testnet.grpc.oasis.io:443` |

[Oasis Protocol Foundation]: https://oasisprotocol.org
[web3]: ../node/web3.mdx
[grpc]: ../node/grpc.mdx

## Consensus Layer Block Explorers

| Name (Provider)                              | Mainnet URL               | Testnet URL                   |
|----------------------------------------------|---------------------------|-------------------------------|
| Oasis Scan ([Bit Cat])                       | https://www.oasisscan.com | https://testnet.oasisscan.com |
| Oasis Explorer ([Oasis Protocol Foundation]) | *Coming soon*             | *Coming soon*                 |

[Bit Cat]: https://www.bitcat365.com/

## Consensus Layer Indexers

| Name (Provider)                           | Mainnet URL                            | Testnet URL                            | Documentation                              |
|-------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|
| Oasis Scan ([Bit Cat])                    | `https://api.oasisscan.com/v2/mainnet` | `https://api.oasisscan.com/v2/testnet` | [API][OasisScan-docs] |
| Oasis Nexus ([Oasis Protocol Foundation]) | `https://nexus.oasis.io/v1`            | `https://testnet.nexus.oasis.io/v1`    | [API][Nexus-docs]                          |

[Nexus-docs]: https://nexus.oasis.io/v1/spec/v1.html
[OasisScan-docs]: https://api.oasisscan.com/v2/swagger/

## Rosetta Endpoints

| Provider                    | Mainnet URL                               | Testnet URL                               |
|-----------------------------|-------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|
| [Oasis Protocol Foundation] | `https://rosetta.oasis.io/api/mainnet/v1` | `https://rosetta.oasis.io/api/testnet/v1` |

:::note

If you are running your own Oasis client node endpoint, a block explorer, an
indexer, or the Rosetta gateway and wish to be added to these docs, open an
issue at [github.com/oasisprotocol/docs].

:::

[github.com/oasisprotocol/docs]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/docs/issues

## See also

<DocCardList items={[findSidebarItem('https://api.docs.oasis.io/js/client'), findSidebarItem('https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/oasisprotocol/oasis-core/go')]} />

Commit message:

docs: move emerald and cipher into other-paratimes
- remove truffle section from emerald
- add redirects

docs/dapp/README.mdx, after:

---
description: Home of the Oasis dApp developer resources
---

import DocCard from '@theme/DocCard';
import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';
import {findSidebarItem} from '@site/src/sidebarUtils';

# Create dApp

![Oasis architectural design including ParaTime and consensus layers](../general/images/architecture/technology_scalability.svg)

The [Oasis architecture] is designed to have a simple, robust consensus layer
on top which connects handful of ParaTimes executing smart contracts.

[Sapphire] is the primary ParaTime. It is EVM-compatible and allows you to
write both confidential and non-confidential smart contracts.

For an overview of the other ParaTimes, refer to the [Other ParaTimes] chapter.

[Oasis architecture]: ../general/oasis-network/README.mdx
[Sapphire]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/docs/blob/main/docs/dapp/sapphire/README.mdx
[Other ParaTimes]: ./tools/other-paratimes/README.mdx

## Oasis Privacy Layer

In addition to building fully native dApps running on one of the Oasis
ParaTimes, you can also add privacy to your existing dApps running on other,
non-confidential chains, and only use Oasis as a *privacy service*.

The Oasis team prepared a rich cross-chain toolkit called the
[**Oasis Privacy Layer**](opl/README.mdx). It consists of solidity precompiles
integrating bridges and wrapping the OpenZeppelin ERC2771 contract on top of
Sapphire, demonstrates best practices for writing confidential smart contracts
and working examples for you to explore and extend.

<DocCard item={findSidebarItem('/dapp/opl/')} />

## Consensus Layer RPC Endpoints

:::danger

The RPC endpoint is a **point of trust**. Beside rate limiting, it can also
perform censorship or even man-in-the-middle attack. If you have security
considerations, we strongly recommend that you [run your own client
node][non-validator-node],

:::

[non-validator-node]: ../node/run-your-node/non-validator-node.mdx

Most dApp developers will build dApps on the ParaTime layer (the *compute*
layer) depicted above. For Sapphire and Emerald which are EVM-compatible chains,
those dApps connect directly to an [EVM-compatible Web3 endpoint][web3].
However, if you are building a dApp for Cipher or the one that needs to
perform consensus operations such as the consensus-layer token transfers,
governance transactions, cross-chain ParaTime deposits and withdrawals and
similar, you will need to connect to the one of the endpoints speaking
[Oasis gRPC][grpc].

Public gRPC endpoints (in alphabetic order):

| Provider                    | Mainnet URL         | Testnet URL                 |
|-----------------------------|---------------------|-----------------------------|
| [Oasis Protocol Foundation] | `grpc.oasis.io:443` | `testnet.grpc.oasis.io:443` |

[Oasis Protocol Foundation]: https://oasisprotocol.org
[web3]: ../node/web3.mdx
[grpc]: ../node/grpc.mdx

## Consensus Layer Block Explorers

| Name (Provider)                              | Mainnet URL               | Testnet URL                   |
|----------------------------------------------|---------------------------|-------------------------------|
| Oasis Scan ([Bit Cat])                       | https://www.oasisscan.com | https://testnet.oasisscan.com |
| Oasis Explorer ([Oasis Protocol Foundation]) | *Coming soon*             | *Coming soon*                 |

[Bit Cat]: https://www.bitcat365.com/

## Consensus Layer Indexers

| Name (Provider)                           | Mainnet URL                            | Testnet URL                            | Documentation                              |
|-------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|
| Oasis Scan ([Bit Cat])                    | `https://api.oasisscan.com/v2/mainnet` | `https://api.oasisscan.com/v2/testnet` | [API][OasisScan-docs] |
| Oasis Nexus ([Oasis Protocol Foundation]) | `https://nexus.oasis.io/v1`            | `https://testnet.nexus.oasis.io/v1`    | [API][Nexus-docs]                          |

[Nexus-docs]: https://nexus.oasis.io/v1/spec/v1.html
[OasisScan-docs]: https://api.oasisscan.com/v2/swagger/

## Rosetta Endpoints

| Provider                    | Mainnet URL                               | Testnet URL                               |
|-----------------------------|-------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|
| [Oasis Protocol Foundation] | `https://rosetta.oasis.io/api/mainnet/v1` | `https://rosetta.oasis.io/api/testnet/v1` |

:::note

If you are running your own Oasis client node endpoint, a block explorer, an
indexer, or the Rosetta gateway and wish to be added to these docs, open an
issue at [github.com/oasisprotocol/docs].

:::

[github.com/oasisprotocol/docs]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/docs/issues

## See also

<DocCardList items={[findSidebarItem('https://api.docs.oasis.io/js/client'), findSidebarItem('https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/oasisprotocol/oasis-core/go')]} />
