docs/dapp/opl/README.md, before:

# Oasis Privacy Layer

The Oasis Privacy Layer (OPL) is an EVM-compatible privacy solution that
empowers developers to add new functionality to smart contracts on the most
popular EVM networks like Ethereum, BNB Chain, and Polygon with encrypted
transactions and confidential state.

## DApp Development

The Oasis Privacy Layer contains a set of [smart contracts](https://github.com/oasisprotocol/sapphire-paratime/tree/main/contracts/contracts/opl)
that integrate [Sapphire](../sapphire/README.mdx) into your existing and future
Web3 applications, introducing confidentiality.

Application developers on [any supported network](https://im-docs.celer.network/developer/contract-addresses-and-rpc-info) can add confidential state
and selective disclosures to their applications through the usage of a smart
contract deployed on OPL without leaving their existing networks.

For more information about OPL and to catch the latest news, please visit the
official [page](https://oasisprotocol.org/opl).

![Oasis Privacy Layer diagram](../images/opl/privacy-layer-diagram.png)

## Quickstart

A pair of contracts are linked bidirectionally to each other across chains, with one end on Sapphire and the other on a supported EVM compatible chain (the Home Network). They can post and receive messages to & from each other using the message-passing bridge, but must register endpoints to define which messages they handle.

Start by adding the [`sapphire-contracts`](http://npmjs.com/package/@oasisprotocol/sapphire-contracts) package to your project so you can import `OPL.sol`:

    pnpm add @oasisprotocol/sapphire-contracts

Then define the two contracts, starting with a contract on Sapphire which runs inside the confidential enclave and can be called via the `secretExample` handler. Use the constructor to provide the Sapphire contract with the address of the other contract network:

```solidity
import {Enclave, Result, autoswitch} from "@oasisprotocol/sapphire-contracts/contracts/OPL.sol";

contract SapphireContract is Enclave {
    constructor(address otherEnd, string chain) Enclave(otherEnd, autoswitch(chain)) {
        registerEndpoint("secretExample", on_example);
    }
    function on_example(bytes calldata _args) internal returns (Result) {
        (uint256 a, bool b) = abi.decode(args, (uint256, bool));
        // TODO: do confidential things here
        return Result.Success;
    }
}
```

Then on the other chain, define your contract which can be called via `triggerExample` to send a message to the contract on Sapphire using the `postMessage` interface.

```solidity
import {Host, Result} from "@oasisprotocol/sapphire-contracts/contracts/OPL.sol";

contract HomeContract is Host {
    constructor(address otherEnd) Host(otherEnd) {
    }
    function triggerExample (uint256 a, bool b) external payable {
        postMessage("secretExample", abi.encode(a, b));
    }
}
```

After a few minutes the bridge will detect and then execute the `SapphireContract.on_example` method.

## Monitoring

The Celer IM Scan API can be used to retrieve status and message details by providing the globally unique transaction ID from the chain which originated the message.

    https://api.celerscan.com/scan/searchByTxHash?tx=0x...

For details of the response format, see the [Query IM Tx Status](https://im-docs.celer.network/developer/development-guide/query-im-tx-status) page of the Celer Inter-Chain Message (IM) documentation.

Commit message:

opl: add list of supported mainnets & testnets

docs/dapp/opl/README.md, after:

# Oasis Privacy Layer

The Oasis Privacy Layer (OPL) is an EVM-compatible privacy solution that
empowers developers to add new functionality to smart contracts on the most
popular EVM networks like Ethereum, BNB Chain, and Polygon with encrypted
transactions and confidential state.

## DApp Development

The Oasis Privacy Layer contains a set of [smart contracts](https://github.com/oasisprotocol/sapphire-paratime/tree/main/contracts/contracts/opl)
that integrate [Sapphire](../sapphire/README.mdx) into your existing and future
Web3 applications, introducing confidentiality.

Application developers on any supported network can add confidential state
and selective disclosures to their applications through the usage of a smart
contract deployed on OPL without leaving their existing networks.

For more information about OPL and to catch the latest news, please visit the
official [page](https://oasisprotocol.org/opl).

![Oasis Privacy Layer diagram](../images/opl/privacy-layer-diagram.png)

## Supported Networks

### Mainnets

 * Ethereum (1), BNB Chain (56), Polygon (137), Fantom (250), Avalanche (43114), Arbitrum One (42161), Moonriver (1285), Optimism (10), Aurora (1313161554), Syscoin (57), Astar (592), Ape (16350), Arbitrum Nova (42170), Milkomeda C1 (2001), zkSync Era (324), Filecoin (314), Polygon zkEVM (1101), Oasis Sapphire (23294)

### Testnets

 * Goerli Testnet (5), BSC Testnet (97), Fantom Testnet (4002), Arbitrum Testnet (421611), Polygon Mumbai Testnet (80001), Avalanche C-Chain Fuji Testnet (43113), Dexalot Testnet (432201), Godwoken Testnet (71401), Shibuya Testnet (81), ConsenSys zkEVM Testnet (59140), Filecoin Hyperspace Testnet (3141), Polygon zkEVM Testnet (1442), Scroll Alpha Testnet (534353), FNCY Testnet (923018)


## Quickstart

A pair of contracts are linked bidirectionally to each other across chains, with one end on Sapphire and the other on a supported EVM compatible chain (the Home Network). They can post and receive messages to & from each other using the message-passing bridge, but must register endpoints to define which messages they handle.

Start by adding the [`sapphire-contracts`](http://npmjs.com/package/@oasisprotocol/sapphire-contracts) package to your project so you can import `OPL.sol`:

    pnpm add @oasisprotocol/sapphire-contracts

Then define the two contracts, starting with a contract on Sapphire which runs inside the confidential enclave and can be called via the `secretExample` handler. Use the constructor to provide the Sapphire contract with the location (address and chain) of the contract on the other network::

```solidity
import {Enclave, Result, autoswitch} from "@oasisprotocol/sapphire-contracts/contracts/OPL.sol";

contract SapphireContract is Enclave {
    constructor(address otherEnd, string chain) Enclave(otherEnd, autoswitch(chain)) {
        registerEndpoint("secretExample", on_example);
    }
    function on_example(bytes calldata _args) internal returns (Result) {
        (uint256 a, bool b) = abi.decode(args, (uint256, bool));
        // TODO: do confidential things here
        return Result.Success;
    }
}
```

Then on the other chain, define your contract which can be called via `triggerExample` to send a message to the contract on Sapphire using the `postMessage` interface.

```solidity
import {Host, Result} from "@oasisprotocol/sapphire-contracts/contracts/OPL.sol";

contract HomeContract is Host {
    constructor(address otherEnd) Host(otherEnd) {
    }
    function triggerExample (uint256 a, bool b) external payable {
        postMessage("secretExample", abi.encode(a, b));
    }
}
```

After a few minutes the bridge will detect and then execute the `SapphireContract.on_example` method.

## Monitoring

The Celer IM Scan API can be used to retrieve status and message details by providing the globally unique transaction ID from the chain which originated the message.

    https://api.celerscan.com/scan/searchByTxHash?tx=0x...

For details of the response format, see the [Query IM Tx Status](https://im-docs.celer.network/developer/development-guide/query-im-tx-status) page of the Celer Inter-Chain Message (IM) documentation.
