docs/node/run-your-node/prerequisites/system-configuration.mdx, before:

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# System Configuration

This page outlines the modifications necessary that should be made to the
configuration of the system where you are running an Oasis Node instance. To
prepare the system for running an Oasis Node, we will guide you through the
process of creating a dedicated user account and increasing the file descriptor
limit.

## Create a user
Nothing in Oasis Node requires elevated privileges, so running the Oasis Node
with root privileges is not allowed. Attempting to run the `oasis-node` process
as the root user will terminate immediately on startup. You will need to
create a dedicated user account to manage the Oasis Node processes. 

To create a new user run as root:

```shell
adduser oasis
```

If you have an existing data directory, change its ownership to the `oasis`
user. If not, you may skip this step.

```shell
chown -R oasis /node/data
```

:::tip

Adjust the user as appropriate to your setup. For example, setting the `oasis`
user's Shell to `/usr/sbin/nologin` prevents (accidentally) logging in as this
user. See the following examples on how to create a user on different systems.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="Ubuntu">

As root, run:

```shell
adduser --system oasis --shell /usr/sbin/nologin
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Fedora">

As root, run:
```shell
useradd -r -s /usr/sbin/nologin
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Ansible">

Add the following task to your playbook:

```yml
- name: Create oasis user
  user:
    name: oasis
    comment: Oasis Services user
    system: yes
    shell: /usr/sbin/nologin
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::

## Increase file descriptor limit

Make sure that the user under which you are running your Oasis Node has a
high-enough file descriptor limit as the databases can have many opened files.
Running out of file descriptors can lead to the node stopping unexpectedly.

You can check the file descriptor limit by running the following as the same
user that will run the Oasis Node:

```shell
ulimit -n
```

If this number is lower than 102400 you should consider increasing it by
updating your system configuration. You can configure _temporary_ limits by
running:

```shell
ulimit -n 102400
```

This limit will only apply to any processes started from the same shell after
the command was executed. If you want to make the change _permanent_, you have
the following options:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="systemd">

In case you are running your Oasis Node process via
[systemd](https://systemd.io/), you can add the following directive under the
`[Service]` section:

```
LimitNOFILE=102400
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Docker">

If you are running the Oasis Node via [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) you can
pass the following option to `docker run` in order to increase the limit to
desired values:

```
--ulimit nofile=102400:1048576
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="limits.conf">

As `root`, create a system-wide *resource limits* configuration File in
`/etc/security/limits.d/99-oasis-node.conf` with content similar to the
following example:

```
*        soft    nofile    102400
*        hard    nofile    1048576
```

You can replace `*` with the name of the user that is running the Oasis Node in
case you only want to change the limits for that particular user.

:::caution

The change above will increase the limit for all processes and not just the
Oasis Node.

:::

:::info

In order for the changes to take effect a system restart may be required.

:::

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Example snippets for different setups

You may find the following snippets helpful in case you are running `oasis-node`
process with systemd, Docker or runit.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="systemd">

Add a [`User` directive] to the Oasis service's systemd unit file:

```
...
User=oasis
...
```

Below can be found a simple systemd unit file for `oasis-node` that can be used
as a starting point.

```ini
[Unit]
Description=Oasis Node
After=network.target

[Service]
Type=simple
User=oasis
WorkingDirectory=/node/data
ExecStart=/node/bin/oasis-node --config /node/etc/config.yml
Restart=on-failure
RestartSec=3
LimitNOFILE=1024000

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Docker">

Add [`USER` instruction] to your Oasis service's Dockerfile:

```
...
USER oasis
...
```
</TabItem>

<TabItem value="runit">

Wrap the invocation in a [`chpst` command]:
```shell
chpst -u oasis oasis-node ...
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

[`User` directive]:
  https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/systemd.exec.html#User=
[`User` instruction]:
  https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#user
[`chpst` command]:
  http://smarden.org/runit/chpst.8.html
[Invalid Permissions]: ../troubleshooting.md#invalid-permissions

Commit message:

docs/node: Add AppArmor profile for Bubblewrap

docs/node/run-your-node/prerequisites/system-configuration.mdx, after:

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# System Configuration

This page outlines the modifications necessary that should be made to the
configuration of the system where you are running an Oasis Node instance. To
prepare the system for running an Oasis Node, we will guide you through the
process of creating a dedicated user account, increasing the file descriptor
limit and optional AppArmor profiles.

## Create a user
Nothing in Oasis Node requires elevated privileges, so running the Oasis Node
with root privileges is not allowed. Attempting to run the `oasis-node` process
as the root user will terminate immediately on startup. You will need to
create a dedicated user account to manage the Oasis Node processes. 

To create a new user run as root:

```shell
adduser oasis
```

If you have an existing data directory, change its ownership to the `oasis`
user. If not, you may skip this step.

```shell
chown -R oasis /node/data
```

:::tip

Adjust the user as appropriate to your setup. For example, setting the `oasis`
user's Shell to `/usr/sbin/nologin` prevents (accidentally) logging in as this
user. See the following examples on how to create a user on different systems.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="Ubuntu">

As root, run:

```shell
adduser --system oasis --shell /usr/sbin/nologin
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Fedora">

As root, run:
```shell
useradd -r -s /usr/sbin/nologin
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Ansible">

Add the following task to your playbook:

```yml
- name: Create oasis user
  user:
    name: oasis
    comment: Oasis Services user
    system: yes
    shell: /usr/sbin/nologin
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::

## Increase file descriptor limit

Make sure that the user under which you are running your Oasis Node has a
high-enough file descriptor limit as the databases can have many opened files.
Running out of file descriptors can lead to the node stopping unexpectedly.

You can check the file descriptor limit by running the following as the same
user that will run the Oasis Node:

```shell
ulimit -n
```

If this number is lower than 102400 you should consider increasing it by
updating your system configuration. You can configure _temporary_ limits by
running:

```shell
ulimit -n 102400
```

This limit will only apply to any processes started from the same shell after
the command was executed. If you want to make the change _permanent_, you have
the following options:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="systemd">

In case you are running your Oasis Node process via
[systemd](https://systemd.io/), you can add the following directive under the
`[Service]` section:

```
LimitNOFILE=102400
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Docker">

If you are running the Oasis Node via [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) you can
pass the following option to `docker run` in order to increase the limit to
desired values:

```
--ulimit nofile=102400:1048576
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="limits.conf">

As `root`, create a system-wide *resource limits* configuration File in
`/etc/security/limits.d/99-oasis-node.conf` with content similar to the
following example:

```
*        soft    nofile    102400
*        hard    nofile    1048576
```

You can replace `*` with the name of the user that is running the Oasis Node in
case you only want to change the limits for that particular user.

:::caution

The change above will increase the limit for all processes and not just the
Oasis Node.

:::

:::info

In order for the changes to take effect a system restart may be required.

:::

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## AppArmor profiles

In case your system is using AppArmor and is restricting unprivileged user namespace
creation, you may need to allow them for Bubblewrap (the sandbox that Oasis Node is
using to execute runtimes).

You can use the following policy in `/etc/apparmor.d/bwrap`:

```
abi <abi/4.0>,
include <tunables/global>

profile bwrap /usr/bin/bwrap flags=(unconfined) {
  userns,

  # Site-specific additions and overrides. See local/README for details.
  include if exists <local/bwrap>
}
```

Then reload AppArmor policies by running:

```
sudo systemctl reload apparmor.service
```

## Example snippets for different setups

You may find the following snippets helpful in case you are running `oasis-node`
process with systemd, Docker or runit.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="systemd">

Add a [`User` directive] to the Oasis service's systemd unit file:

```
...
User=oasis
...
```

Below can be found a simple systemd unit file for `oasis-node` that can be used
as a starting point.

```ini
[Unit]
Description=Oasis Node
After=network.target

[Service]
Type=simple
User=oasis
WorkingDirectory=/node/data
ExecStart=/node/bin/oasis-node --config /node/etc/config.yml
Restart=on-failure
RestartSec=3
LimitNOFILE=1024000

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Docker">

Add [`USER` instruction] to your Oasis service's Dockerfile:

```
...
USER oasis
...
```
</TabItem>

<TabItem value="runit">

Wrap the invocation in a [`chpst` command]:
```shell
chpst -u oasis oasis-node ...
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

[`User` directive]:
  https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/systemd.exec.html#User=
[`User` instruction]:
  https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#user
[`chpst` command]:
  http://smarden.org/runit/chpst.8.html
[Invalid Permissions]: ../troubleshooting.md#invalid-permissions
