docs/README.mdx, before:

import DocCard from "@theme/DocCard";
import DocCardList from "@theme/DocCardList";
import { findSidebarItem } from "@site/src/sidebarUtils";
import DocCardSection from "@site/src/components/DocCardSection";
import OasisSvg from "@site/static/img/OasisGraphic.svg?react";
import GetInvolvedSvg from "@site/static/img/GetInvolvedGraphic.svg?react";
import BuildSvg from "@site/static/img/BuildGraphic.svg?react";
import DevelopCoreSvg from "@site/static/img/DevelopCoreGraphic.svg?react";
import NodesSvg from "@site/static/img/NodesGraphic.svg?react";

# Getting Started

<div className="homepage-container">

<DocCardSection
  title="Use Oasis"
  path="/general/"
  itemPaths={[
    "/general/oasis-network/",
    "/general/manage-tokens/",
    "/general/manage-tokens/cli/",
  ]}
  svg={
    <OasisSvg className="animatedSvg" />
  }
>
  This introductory part contains general overview of the Oasis Network such as
  the distinction between the consensus layer and different ParaTimes. It
  also covers wallets and other tools for managing your assets across the Oasis
  chains and how to use unique Oasis features.
</DocCardSection>

<DocCardSection
  title="Get Involved"
  path="/get-involved/"
  itemPaths={[
    "/get-involved/",
    "https://oasisrose.garden",
    "/get-involved/run-node",
    "/get-involved/oasis-core",
  ]}
  svg={<GetInvolvedSvg className="animatedSvg" />}
>
  Contains information on official channels to get in touch with the Oasis Network developers and how to contribute to the network.
</DocCardSection>

<DocCardSection
  title="Build on Oasis"
  path="/build/"
  fullWidth
  itemPaths={[
    "/build/sapphire/",
    "/build/opl/",
    "/build/rofl/",
    "/build/tools/",
  ]}
  svg={<BuildSvg className="animatedSvg" />}
>
  Contains learning material for the smart contract developers. Since the
  Oasis platform is best known for confidentiality, the most notable
  ParaTime is [Oasis Sapphire](/build/sapphire/), an
  EVM-compatible ParaTime with built-in contract state encryption. The Oasis
  team also prepared a set of libraries called the
  [Oasis Privacy Layer](/build/opl/) to bridge existing dApps running
  on other chains and use the unique Sapphire's confidentiality.

  Our [Runtime Offchain Logic (ROFL)](/build/rofl/) enables you
  to build secure applications running offchain in a trusted environment
  (TEE) that seamlessly communicate with Oasis Sapphire. This is ideal for
  trusted oracles, compute-expensive tasks in AI, or as a backend for
  interactive games.
</DocCardSection>

<DocCardSection
  title="Run Node"
  path="/node/"
  itemPaths={[
    "/node/",
    "/node/mainnet/",
    "/node/testnet/",
    "/node/run-your-node/",
  ]}
  svg={<NodesSvg className="animatedSvg" />}
>
  If you want to run your own Oasis node, this part will provide you with guides on the current Mainnet and Testnet network parameters and how to set up your node, let it be a validator node, perhaps running a ParaTime or just a simple client node for your server to submit transactions and perform queries on the network.
</DocCardSection>

<DocCardSection
  title="Develop Core"
  path="/core/"
  itemPaths={[
    "/core/",
    "/adrs",
  ]}
  svg={<DevelopCoreSvg className="animatedSvg" />}
>
  Whether you want to contribute your code to the core components of the Oasis Network or just learn more about the Oasis consensus layer and other core components, this is the part for you.

  Additions or changes to the interoperable Oasis network components are always made with consensus. Similar to the Ethereum's ERC/EIP mechanism Oasis follows formal Architectural Decision Records (ADRs) which are first proposed, voted on and finally implemented, if accepted.
</DocCardSection>

</div>

Commit message:

docs: Move ROFL and Build on Oasis on top

docs/README.mdx, after:

import DocCard from "@theme/DocCard";
import DocCardList from "@theme/DocCardList";
import { findSidebarItem } from "@site/src/sidebarUtils";
import DocCardSection from "@site/src/components/DocCardSection";
import OasisSvg from "@site/static/img/OasisGraphic.svg?react";
import GetInvolvedSvg from "@site/static/img/GetInvolvedGraphic.svg?react";
import BuildSvg from "@site/static/img/BuildGraphic.svg?react";
import DevelopCoreSvg from "@site/static/img/DevelopCoreGraphic.svg?react";
import NodesSvg from "@site/static/img/NodesGraphic.svg?react";

# Getting Started

<div className="homepage-container">

<DocCardSection
    title="Build on Oasis"
    path="/build/"
    fullWidth
    itemPaths={[
        "/build/rofl/",
        "/build/sapphire/",
        "/build/opl/",
        "/build/tools/",
    ]}
    svg={<BuildSvg className="animatedSvg" />}
>
    Our [Runtime Offchain Logic (ROFL)](/build/rofl/) enables you to build
    secure applications running in a trusted environment (TEE). This is ideal
    for trusted oracles, AI agents, verifiable compute tasks such as AI
    training, or game servers.

    ROFL can seamlessly communicate with [Oasis Sapphire](/build/sapphire/)—an
    EVM-compatible L1 blockchain with built-in contract state and end-to-end
    transaction encryption.

    The Oasis team also prepared a set of libraries called the
    [Oasis Privacy Layer](/build/opl/) to bridge existing dApps running
    on other chains with the unique Sapphire's confidentiality and other
    [tools](/build/tools/).
</DocCardSection>

<DocCardSection
  title="Use Oasis"
  path="/general/"
  itemPaths={[
    "/general/oasis-network/",
    "/general/manage-tokens/",
    "/general/manage-tokens/cli/",
  ]}
  svg={
    <OasisSvg className="animatedSvg" />
  }
>
  This introductory part contains general overview of the Oasis Network such as
  the distinction between the consensus layer and different ParaTimes. It
  also covers wallets and other tools for managing your assets across the Oasis
  chains and how to use unique Oasis features.
</DocCardSection>

<DocCardSection
  title="Get Involved"
  path="/get-involved/"
  itemPaths={[
    "/get-involved/",
    "https://oasisrose.garden",
    "/get-involved/run-node",
    "/get-involved/oasis-core",
  ]}
  svg={<GetInvolvedSvg className="animatedSvg" />}
>
  Contains information on official channels to get in touch with the Oasis Network developers and how to contribute to the network.
</DocCardSection>

<DocCardSection
  title="Run Node"
  path="/node/"
  itemPaths={[
    "/node/",
    "/node/mainnet/",
    "/node/testnet/",
    "/node/run-your-node/",
  ]}
  svg={<NodesSvg className="animatedSvg" />}
>
  If you want to run your own Oasis node, this part will provide you with guides on the current Mainnet and Testnet network parameters and how to set up your node, let it be a validator node, perhaps running a ParaTime or just a simple client node for your server to submit transactions and perform queries on the network.
</DocCardSection>

<DocCardSection
  title="Develop Core"
  path="/core/"
  itemPaths={[
    "/core/",
    "/adrs",
  ]}
  svg={<DevelopCoreSvg className="animatedSvg" />}
>
  Whether you want to contribute your code to the core components of the Oasis Network or just learn more about the Oasis consensus layer and other core components, this is the part for you.

  Additions or changes to the interoperable Oasis network components are always made with consensus. Similar to the Ethereum's ERC/EIP mechanism Oasis follows formal Architectural Decision Records (ADRs) which are first proposed, voted on and finally implemented, if accepted.
</DocCardSection>

</div>
