docs/node/run-your-node/paratime-node.mdx, before:

import DocCard from '@theme/DocCard';
import {findSidebarItem} from '@site/src/sidebarUtils';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# ParaTime Node

:::info

These instructions are for setting up a _ParaTime_ node which participates in one or more ParaTime compute committees. If you want to run a _ParaTime client_ node instead, see the [instructions for running a ParaTime client node](paratime-client-node.mdx). If you want to run a _validator_ node instead, see the [instructions for running a validator node](validator-node/README.md). Similarly, if you want to run a non-validator node instead, see the [instructions for running a non-validator node](non-validator-node.md).

:::

:::caution

For a production setup, we recommend running the ParaTime compute/storage node separately from the validator node (if you run one).

Running ParaTime and validator nodes as separate Oasis nodes will prevent configuration mistakes and/or (security) issues affecting one node type from affecting the other one.

:::

:::tip

If you are looking for some concrete ParaTimes that you can run, see [the list of ParaTimes and their parameters](../../get-involved/run-node/paratime-node.mdx).

:::

:::tip

Oasis Core refers to ParaTimes as runtimes internally, so all configuration options will have runtime in their name.

:::

This guide will cover setting up your ParaTime compute node for the Oasis Network. This guide assumes some basic knowledge on the use of command line tools.

## Prerequisites

Before following this guide, make sure you've followed the [Prerequisites](prerequisites) and [Run a Non-validator Node](non-validator-node.md) sections and have:

* Oasis Node binary installed and configured on your system.
* The chosen top-level `/node/` working directory prepared. In addition to `etc` and `data` directories, also prepare the following directories:
  * `bin`: This will store binaries needed by Oasis Node for running the ParaTimes.
  * `runtimes`: This will store the ParaTime bundles.

:::tip

Feel free to name your working directory as you wish, e.g. `/srv/oasis/`.

Just make sure to use the correct working directory path in the instructions below.

:::

* Genesis file copied to `/node/etc/genesis.json`.

:::tip

Reading the rest of the [validator node setup instructions](validator-node/README.md) may also be useful.

:::

:::info

To speed up bootstraping your new node, we recommend [copying node's state from your existing node](advanced/copy-state-from-one-node-to-the-other.md) or [syncing it using state sync](advanced/sync-node-using-state-sync.md).

:::

### Stake Requirements

To be able to register as a ParaTime node on the Oasis Network, you need to
have enough tokens staked in your entity's escrow account.

Current minimum staking requirements for a specific ParaTime are listed on the
Contribute to the Network section - [Run a ParaTime Node] page. Should you want
to check the staking requirements for other node roles and registered ParaTimes
manually, use the Oasis CLI tools as described in [Common Staking Info].

Finally, to stake the tokens, use our [Oasis CLI tools]. If everything was set
up correctly, you should see something like below when running [Oasis Node
Stake Account Info] command for your entity's account (this is an example for
the Testnet):

```bash
Balance:
  Total: 0.0 TEST
  Available: 0.0 TEST

Active Delegations to this Account:
  Total: 20000.0 TEST (20000000000000 shares)
  Delegations:
    - From:   oasis1qrwdwxutpyr9d2m84zh55rzcf99aw0hkts7myvv9
      Amount: 20000.0 TEST (20000000000000 shares)

Stake Accumulator:
  Claims:
    - Name: registry.RegisterEntity
      Staking Thresholds:
        - Global: entity
    - Name: registry.RegisterNode.HG5TB3dbY8gtYBBw/R/cHfPaOpe0vT7W1wu/2rtpk/A=
      Staking Thresholds:
        - Global: node-compute
      Staking Thresholds:
        - Global: node-storage

Nonce: 1
```

:::caution

The stake requirements may differ from ParaTime to ParaTime and are subject to
change in the future.

:::

[Run a ParaTime Node]: ../../get-involved/run-node/paratime-node.mdx
[Common Staking Info]: ../../general/manage-tokens/advanced/oasis-cli-tools/common-staking-info.md
[Oasis CLI tools]: ../../general/manage-tokens/advanced/oasis-cli-tools/delegate-tokens.md
[Oasis Node Stake Account Info]: ../../general/manage-tokens/advanced/oasis-cli-tools/get-account-info.md

### Register a New Entity or Update Your Entity Registration

If you don't have an entity yet, create a new one by following the [Creating Your Entity](validator-node/README.md#creating-your-entity) instructions.

:::danger

Everything in this section should be done on the `localhost` as there are sensitive items that will be created.

:::

If you will be running the ParaTime on a new Oasis Node, initialize a new node by following the [Initializing a Node](validator-node/README.md#initializing-a-node) instructions.

Then update your entity descriptor by enumerating paths to all your node's descriptors (existing and new ones) in the `--entity.node.descriptor` flag. For example:

```bash
oasis-node registry entity update \
    ... various signer flags ... \
    --entity.node.descriptor /localhost/node1/node_genesis.json,/localhost/node2/node_genesis.json
```

:::info

To confirm all nodes are added to your entity descriptor, run:

```bash
cat <PATH-TO-entity.json>
```

and ensure you see all your nodes' IDs under the `"nodes"` list.

For example:

```bash
{
  "v": 2,
  "id": "QTg+ZjubD/36egwByAIGC6lMVBKgqo7xnZPgHVoIKzc=",
  "nodes": [
    "yT1h8/eN0VInQxn3YKcHxvSgGcsjsTSYmdTLZZMBTWI=",
    "HG5TB3dbY8gtYBBw/R/cHfPaOpe0vT7W1wu/2rtpk/A="
  ]
}
```

:::

Then generate and submit the new/updated entity descriptor via the entity registration transaction by following the [Generating Entity Registration Transaction](validator-node/README.md#generating-entity-registration-transaction) instructions.

:::caution

Make sure your entity descriptor (i.e. `entity.json`) is copied to your online server and saved as `/node/entity/entity.json` to ensure the [node's configuration](paratime-node.mdx#configuration) will find it.

:::

:::tip

You will [configure the node](paratime-node.mdx#configuration) to automatically register for the roles it has enabled (i.e. storage and compute roles) via the `worker.registration.entity` configuration flag.

No manual node registration is necessary.

:::

:::info

ParaTime rewards for running the compute node will be sent to your entity address **inside the ParaTime**. To access the rewards on the consensus layer, you will need to withdraw them first. Read the [Deposit/Withdraw Tokens to/from ParaTime](../../general/manage-tokens/advanced/oasis-cli-tools/deposit-withdraw-tokens-to-from-paratime.mdx) chapter to learn more.

:::

### The ParaTime Bundle

In order to run a ParaTime node you need to obtain the ParaTime bundle that
needs to come from a trusted source. The bundle (usually with an `.orc`
extension that stands for Oasis Runtime Container) contains all the needed
ParaTime binaries together with the identifier and version metadata to ease
deployment.

When the ParaTime is running in a Trusted Execution Environment (TEE) the bundle
will also contain all the required artifacts (e.g. SGXS version of the binary
and any enclave signatures).

:::danger

Like the genesis document, make sure you obtain these from a trusted source.

:::

:::caution

#### **Compiling the ParaTime Binary from Source Code**

In case you decide to build the ParaTime binary from source yourself, make sure
that you follow our [guidelines for deterministic compilation](../../paratime/reproducibility.md)
to ensure that you receive the exact same binary.

When the ParaTime is running in a TEE, a different binary to what is registered
in the consensus layer will not work and will be rejected by the network.

:::

### Install Oasis Core Runtime Loader

For ParaTimes running inside [Intel SGX Trusted Execution Environment](paratime-node.mdx#setting-up-trusted-execution-environment-tee), you will need to install the Oasis Core Runtime Loader.

The Oasis Core Runtime Loader binary (`oasis-core-runtime-loader`) is part of Oasis Core binary releases, so make sure you download the appropriate version specified the [Network Parameters](../mainnet/README.md) page.

Install it to `bin` subdirectory of your node's working directory, e.g. `/node/bin/oasis-core-runtime-loader`.

### Install ParaTime Bundle

For each ParaTime, you need to obtain its bundle and install it to the
`runtimes` subdirectory of your node's working directory.

:::info

For example, for the [Cipher ParaTime](../mainnet/README.md#cipher-paratime),
you would have to obtain the `cipher-paratime.orc` bundle and install it to
`/node/runtimes/cipher-paratime.orc`.

:::

### Install Bubblewrap Sandbox (at least version 0.3.3)

ParaTime compute nodes execute ParaTime binaries inside a sandboxed environment provided by [Bubblewrap](https://github.com/containers/bubblewrap). In order to install it, please follow these instructions, depending on your distribution:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="Ubuntu 18.10+">

```bash
sudo apt install bubblewrap
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Fedora">

```bash
sudo dnf install bubblewrap
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Other Distributions">
On other systems, you can download the latest [source release provided by the Bubblewrap project](https://github.com/containers/bubblewrap/releases) and build it yourself.

Make sure you have the necessary development tools installed on your system and the `libcap` development headers. On Ubuntu, you can install them with:

```bash
sudo apt install build-essential libcap-dev
```

After obtaining the Bubblewrap source tarball, e.g. [bubblewrap-0.4.1.tar.xz](https://github.com/containers/bubblewrap/releases/download/v0.4.1/bubblewrap-0.4.1.tar.xz), run:

```bash
tar -xf bubblewrap-0.4.1.tar.xz
cd bubblewrap-0.4.1
./configure --prefix=/usr
make
sudo make install
```

:::caution

Note that Oasis Node expects Bubblewrap to be installed under `/usr/bin/bwrap` by default.

:::
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Ensure you have a new enough version by running:

```
bwrap --version
```

:::caution

Ubuntu 18.04 LTS (and earlier) provide overly-old `bubblewrap`. Follow _Other Distributions_ section on those systems.

:::

### Setting up Trusted Execution Environment (TEE)

If a ParaTime requires the use of a TEE, then make sure you set up TEE as instructed in the [Set up Trusted Execution Environment (TEE)](prerequisites/set-up-trusted-execution-environment-tee.md) doc.

## Configuration

In order to configure the node create the `/node/etc/config.yml` file with the following content:

```yaml
datadir: /node/data

log:
  level:
    default: info
    tendermint: info
    tendermint/context: error
  format: JSON

genesis:
  file: /node/etc/genesis.json

consensus:
  tendermint:
    core:
      listen_address: tcp://0.0.0.0:26656

      # The external IP that is used when registering this node to the network.
      # NOTE: If you are using the Sentry node setup, this option should be
      # omitted.
      external_address: tcp://{{ external_address }}:26656

    p2p:
      # List of seed nodes to connect to.
      # NOTE: You can add additional seed nodes to this list if you want.
      seed:
        - "{{ seed_node_address }}"

runtime:
  mode: compute
  paths:
    # Paths to ParaTime bundles for all of the supported ParaTimes.
    - "{{ runtime_orc_path }}"

  # The following section is required for ParaTimes which are running inside the
  # Intel SGX Trusted Execution Environment.
  sgx:
    loader: /node/bin/oasis-core-runtime-loader

worker:
  registration:
    # In order for the node to register itself, the entity.json of the entity
    # used to provision the node must be available on the node.
    entity: /node/entity/entity.json

  p2p:
    # External P2P configuration.
    port: 30002
    addresses:
      # The external IP that is used when registering this node to the network.
      - "{{ external_address }}:30002"

# The following section is required for ParaTimes which are running inside the
# Intel SGX Trusted Execution Environment.
ias:
  proxy:
    address:
      # List of IAS proxies to connect to.
      # NOTE: You can add additional IAS proxies to this list if you want.
      - "{{ ias_proxy_address }}"
```

Before using this configuration you should collect the following information to replace the  variables present in the configuration file:

* `{{ external_address }}`: The external IP you used when registering this node.
* `{{ seed_node_address }}`: The seed node address in the form `ID@IP:port`.
  * You can find the current Oasis Seed Node address in the [Network Parameters](../mainnet/README.md).
* `{{ runtime_orc_path }}`: Path to the [ParaTime bundle](paratime-node.mdx#the-paratime-bundle) of the form `/node/runtimes/foo-paratime.orc`.
  * You can find the current Oasis-supported ParaTimes in the [Network Paramers](../mainnet/README.md#paratimes).
* `{{ ias_proxy_address }}`: The IAS proxy address in the form `ID@HOST:port`.
  * You can find the current Oasis IAS proxy address in the [Network Parameters](../mainnet/README.md#cipher-paratime).
  * If you want, you can also [run your own IAS proxy](ias-proxy.md).

:::caution

Make sure the `worker.p2p.port` (default: `9200`) port is exposed and publicly
accessible on the internet (for `TCP` traffic).

:::

## Starting the Oasis Node

You can start the node by running the following command:

```bash
oasis-node --config /node/etc/config.yml
```

## Checking Node Status

To ensure that your node is properly connected with the network, you can run the following command after the node has started:

```bash
oasis-node control status -a unix:/node/data/internal.sock
```

## Troubleshooting

See the general [Node troubleshooting](troubleshooting.md) and [Set up TEE troubleshooting](prerequisites/set-up-trusted-execution-environment-tee.md#troubleshooting) sections before proceeding with ParaTime node-specific troubleshooting.

### Too Old Bubblewrap Version

Double check your installed `bubblewrap` version, and ensure is at least of version **0.3.3**. Previous versions of this guide did not explicitly mention the required version. For details see the [Install Bubblewrap Sandbox](paratime-node.mdx#install-bubblewrap-sandbox-at-least-version-0-3-3) section.

### Stake Requirement

Double check your node entity satisfies the staking requirements for a ParaTime node. For details see the [Stake Requirements](paratime-node.mdx#stake-requirements) section.

## See also

<DocCard item={findSidebarItem('/node/web3')} />

Commit message:

docs/node/run-your-node: Add troubleshooting docs Bubblewrap Sandbox Fails to Start

docs/node/run-your-node/paratime-node.mdx, after:

import DocCard from '@theme/DocCard';
import {findSidebarItem} from '@site/src/sidebarUtils';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# ParaTime Node

:::info

These instructions are for setting up a _ParaTime_ node which participates in one or more ParaTime compute committees. If you want to run a _ParaTime client_ node instead, see the [instructions for running a ParaTime client node](paratime-client-node.mdx). If you want to run a _validator_ node instead, see the [instructions for running a validator node](validator-node/README.md). Similarly, if you want to run a non-validator node instead, see the [instructions for running a non-validator node](non-validator-node.md).

:::

:::caution

For a production setup, we recommend running the ParaTime compute/storage node separately from the validator node (if you run one).

Running ParaTime and validator nodes as separate Oasis nodes will prevent configuration mistakes and/or (security) issues affecting one node type from affecting the other one.

:::

:::tip

If you are looking for some concrete ParaTimes that you can run, see [the list of ParaTimes and their parameters](../../get-involved/run-node/paratime-node.mdx).

:::

:::tip

Oasis Core refers to ParaTimes as runtimes internally, so all configuration options will have runtime in their name.

:::

This guide will cover setting up your ParaTime compute node for the Oasis Network. This guide assumes some basic knowledge on the use of command line tools.

## Prerequisites

Before following this guide, make sure you've followed the [Prerequisites](prerequisites) and [Run a Non-validator Node](non-validator-node.md) sections and have:

* Oasis Node binary installed and configured on your system.
* The chosen top-level `/node/` working directory prepared. In addition to `etc` and `data` directories, also prepare the following directories:
  * `bin`: This will store binaries needed by Oasis Node for running the ParaTimes.
  * `runtimes`: This will store the ParaTime bundles.

:::tip

Feel free to name your working directory as you wish, e.g. `/srv/oasis/`.

Just make sure to use the correct working directory path in the instructions below.

:::

* Genesis file copied to `/node/etc/genesis.json`.

:::tip

Reading the rest of the [validator node setup instructions](validator-node/README.md) may also be useful.

:::

:::info

To speed up bootstraping your new node, we recommend [copying node's state from your existing node](advanced/copy-state-from-one-node-to-the-other.md) or [syncing it using state sync](advanced/sync-node-using-state-sync.md).

:::

### Stake Requirements

To be able to register as a ParaTime node on the Oasis Network, you need to
have enough tokens staked in your entity's escrow account.

Current minimum staking requirements for a specific ParaTime are listed on the
Contribute to the Network section - [Run a ParaTime Node] page. Should you want
to check the staking requirements for other node roles and registered ParaTimes
manually, use the Oasis CLI tools as described in [Common Staking Info].

Finally, to stake the tokens, use our [Oasis CLI tools]. If everything was set
up correctly, you should see something like below when running [Oasis Node
Stake Account Info] command for your entity's account (this is an example for
the Testnet):

```bash
Balance:
  Total: 0.0 TEST
  Available: 0.0 TEST

Active Delegations to this Account:
  Total: 20000.0 TEST (20000000000000 shares)
  Delegations:
    - From:   oasis1qrwdwxutpyr9d2m84zh55rzcf99aw0hkts7myvv9
      Amount: 20000.0 TEST (20000000000000 shares)

Stake Accumulator:
  Claims:
    - Name: registry.RegisterEntity
      Staking Thresholds:
        - Global: entity
    - Name: registry.RegisterNode.HG5TB3dbY8gtYBBw/R/cHfPaOpe0vT7W1wu/2rtpk/A=
      Staking Thresholds:
        - Global: node-compute
      Staking Thresholds:
        - Global: node-storage

Nonce: 1
```

:::caution

The stake requirements may differ from ParaTime to ParaTime and are subject to
change in the future.

:::

[Run a ParaTime Node]: ../../get-involved/run-node/paratime-node.mdx
[Common Staking Info]: ../../general/manage-tokens/advanced/oasis-cli-tools/common-staking-info.md
[Oasis CLI tools]: ../../general/manage-tokens/advanced/oasis-cli-tools/delegate-tokens.md
[Oasis Node Stake Account Info]: ../../general/manage-tokens/advanced/oasis-cli-tools/get-account-info.md

### Register a New Entity or Update Your Entity Registration

If you don't have an entity yet, create a new one by following the [Creating Your Entity](validator-node/README.md#creating-your-entity) instructions.

:::danger

Everything in this section should be done on the `localhost` as there are sensitive items that will be created.

:::

If you will be running the ParaTime on a new Oasis Node, initialize a new node by following the [Initializing a Node](validator-node/README.md#initializing-a-node) instructions.

Then update your entity descriptor by enumerating paths to all your node's descriptors (existing and new ones) in the `--entity.node.descriptor` flag. For example:

```bash
oasis-node registry entity update \
    ... various signer flags ... \
    --entity.node.descriptor /localhost/node1/node_genesis.json,/localhost/node2/node_genesis.json
```

:::info

To confirm all nodes are added to your entity descriptor, run:

```bash
cat <PATH-TO-entity.json>
```

and ensure you see all your nodes' IDs under the `"nodes"` list.

For example:

```bash
{
  "v": 2,
  "id": "QTg+ZjubD/36egwByAIGC6lMVBKgqo7xnZPgHVoIKzc=",
  "nodes": [
    "yT1h8/eN0VInQxn3YKcHxvSgGcsjsTSYmdTLZZMBTWI=",
    "HG5TB3dbY8gtYBBw/R/cHfPaOpe0vT7W1wu/2rtpk/A="
  ]
}
```

:::

Then generate and submit the new/updated entity descriptor via the entity registration transaction by following the [Generating Entity Registration Transaction](validator-node/README.md#generating-entity-registration-transaction) instructions.

:::caution

Make sure your entity descriptor (i.e. `entity.json`) is copied to your online server and saved as `/node/entity/entity.json` to ensure the [node's configuration](paratime-node.mdx#configuration) will find it.

:::

:::tip

You will [configure the node](paratime-node.mdx#configuration) to automatically register for the roles it has enabled (i.e. storage and compute roles) via the `worker.registration.entity` configuration flag.

No manual node registration is necessary.

:::

:::info

ParaTime rewards for running the compute node will be sent to your entity address **inside the ParaTime**. To access the rewards on the consensus layer, you will need to withdraw them first. Read the [Deposit/Withdraw Tokens to/from ParaTime](../../general/manage-tokens/advanced/oasis-cli-tools/deposit-withdraw-tokens-to-from-paratime.mdx) chapter to learn more.

:::

### The ParaTime Bundle

In order to run a ParaTime node you need to obtain the ParaTime bundle that
needs to come from a trusted source. The bundle (usually with an `.orc`
extension that stands for Oasis Runtime Container) contains all the needed
ParaTime binaries together with the identifier and version metadata to ease
deployment.

When the ParaTime is running in a Trusted Execution Environment (TEE) the bundle
will also contain all the required artifacts (e.g. SGXS version of the binary
and any enclave signatures).

:::danger

Like the genesis document, make sure you obtain these from a trusted source.

:::

:::caution

#### **Compiling the ParaTime Binary from Source Code**

In case you decide to build the ParaTime binary from source yourself, make sure
that you follow our [guidelines for deterministic compilation](../../paratime/reproducibility.md)
to ensure that you receive the exact same binary.

When the ParaTime is running in a TEE, a different binary to what is registered
in the consensus layer will not work and will be rejected by the network.

:::

### Install Oasis Core Runtime Loader

For ParaTimes running inside [Intel SGX Trusted Execution Environment](paratime-node.mdx#setting-up-trusted-execution-environment-tee), you will need to install the Oasis Core Runtime Loader.

The Oasis Core Runtime Loader binary (`oasis-core-runtime-loader`) is part of Oasis Core binary releases, so make sure you download the appropriate version specified the [Network Parameters](../mainnet/README.md) page.

Install it to `bin` subdirectory of your node's working directory, e.g. `/node/bin/oasis-core-runtime-loader`.

### Install ParaTime Bundle

For each ParaTime, you need to obtain its bundle and install it to the
`runtimes` subdirectory of your node's working directory.

:::info

For example, for the [Cipher ParaTime](../mainnet/README.md#cipher-paratime),
you would have to obtain the `cipher-paratime.orc` bundle and install it to
`/node/runtimes/cipher-paratime.orc`.

:::

### Install Bubblewrap Sandbox (at least version 0.3.3)

ParaTime compute nodes execute ParaTime binaries inside a sandboxed environment provided by [Bubblewrap](https://github.com/containers/bubblewrap). In order to install it, please follow these instructions, depending on your distribution:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="Ubuntu 18.10+">

```bash
sudo apt install bubblewrap
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Fedora">

```bash
sudo dnf install bubblewrap
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Other Distributions">
On other systems, you can download the latest [source release provided by the Bubblewrap project](https://github.com/containers/bubblewrap/releases) and build it yourself.

Make sure you have the necessary development tools installed on your system and the `libcap` development headers. On Ubuntu, you can install them with:

```bash
sudo apt install build-essential libcap-dev
```

After obtaining the Bubblewrap source tarball, e.g. [bubblewrap-0.4.1.tar.xz](https://github.com/containers/bubblewrap/releases/download/v0.4.1/bubblewrap-0.4.1.tar.xz), run:

```bash
tar -xf bubblewrap-0.4.1.tar.xz
cd bubblewrap-0.4.1
./configure --prefix=/usr
make
sudo make install
```

:::caution

Note that Oasis Node expects Bubblewrap to be installed under `/usr/bin/bwrap` by default.

:::
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Ensure you have a new enough version by running:

```
bwrap --version
```

:::caution

Ubuntu 18.04 LTS (and earlier) provide overly-old `bubblewrap`. Follow _Other Distributions_ section on those systems.

:::

### Setting up Trusted Execution Environment (TEE)

If a ParaTime requires the use of a TEE, then make sure you set up TEE as instructed in the [Set up Trusted Execution Environment (TEE)](prerequisites/set-up-trusted-execution-environment-tee.md) doc.

## Configuration

In order to configure the node create the `/node/etc/config.yml` file with the following content:

```yaml
datadir: /node/data

log:
  level:
    default: info
    tendermint: info
    tendermint/context: error
  format: JSON

genesis:
  file: /node/etc/genesis.json

consensus:
  tendermint:
    core:
      listen_address: tcp://0.0.0.0:26656

      # The external IP that is used when registering this node to the network.
      # NOTE: If you are using the Sentry node setup, this option should be
      # omitted.
      external_address: tcp://{{ external_address }}:26656

    p2p:
      # List of seed nodes to connect to.
      # NOTE: You can add additional seed nodes to this list if you want.
      seed:
        - "{{ seed_node_address }}"

runtime:
  mode: compute
  paths:
    # Paths to ParaTime bundles for all of the supported ParaTimes.
    - "{{ runtime_orc_path }}"

  # The following section is required for ParaTimes which are running inside the
  # Intel SGX Trusted Execution Environment.
  sgx:
    loader: /node/bin/oasis-core-runtime-loader

worker:
  registration:
    # In order for the node to register itself, the entity.json of the entity
    # used to provision the node must be available on the node.
    entity: /node/entity/entity.json

  p2p:
    # External P2P configuration.
    port: 30002
    addresses:
      # The external IP that is used when registering this node to the network.
      - "{{ external_address }}:30002"

# The following section is required for ParaTimes which are running inside the
# Intel SGX Trusted Execution Environment.
ias:
  proxy:
    address:
      # List of IAS proxies to connect to.
      # NOTE: You can add additional IAS proxies to this list if you want.
      - "{{ ias_proxy_address }}"
```

Before using this configuration you should collect the following information to replace the  variables present in the configuration file:

* `{{ external_address }}`: The external IP you used when registering this node.
* `{{ seed_node_address }}`: The seed node address in the form `ID@IP:port`.
  * You can find the current Oasis Seed Node address in the [Network Parameters](../mainnet/README.md).
* `{{ runtime_orc_path }}`: Path to the [ParaTime bundle](paratime-node.mdx#the-paratime-bundle) of the form `/node/runtimes/foo-paratime.orc`.
  * You can find the current Oasis-supported ParaTimes in the [Network Paramers](../mainnet/README.md#paratimes).
* `{{ ias_proxy_address }}`: The IAS proxy address in the form `ID@HOST:port`.
  * You can find the current Oasis IAS proxy address in the [Network Parameters](../mainnet/README.md#cipher-paratime).
  * If you want, you can also [run your own IAS proxy](ias-proxy.md).

:::caution

Make sure the `worker.p2p.port` (default: `9200`) port is exposed and publicly
accessible on the internet (for `TCP` traffic).

:::

## Starting the Oasis Node

You can start the node by running the following command:

```bash
oasis-node --config /node/etc/config.yml
```

## Checking Node Status

To ensure that your node is properly connected with the network, you can run the following command after the node has started:

```bash
oasis-node control status -a unix:/node/data/internal.sock
```

## Troubleshooting

See the general [Node troubleshooting](troubleshooting.md) and [Set up TEE troubleshooting](prerequisites/set-up-trusted-execution-environment-tee.md#troubleshooting) sections before proceeding with ParaTime node-specific troubleshooting.

### Too Old Bubblewrap Version

Double check your installed `bubblewrap` version, and ensure is at least of version **0.3.3**. For details see the [Install Bubblewrap Sandbox](paratime-node.mdx#install-bubblewrap-sandbox-at-least-version-0-3-3) section.

### Bubblewrap Sandbox Fails to Start

If the environment in which you are running the ParaTime node applies too restricted Seccomp or AppArmor profiles, the Bubblewrap sandbox that isolates each runtime may fail to start. In the logs you will see how the runtime attempts to restart, but fails with an `bwrap` error, like:

```json
{"level":"warn","module":"runtime","msg":"bwrap: Failed to mount tmpfs: Permission denied","runtime_id":"000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000f80306c9858e7279","runtime_name":"sapphire-paratime","ts":"2023-03-06T10:08:51.983330021Z"}
```

In case of `bwrap` issues you need to adjust your Seccomp or AppArmor profiles to support Bubblewrap sandboxes. In Docker you can set or disable Seccomp and AppArmor profiles with parameters:

```
  --security-opt apparmor=unconfined \
  --security-opt seccomp=unconfined \
```

### Stake Requirement

Double check your node entity satisfies the staking requirements for a ParaTime node. For details see the [Stake Requirements](paratime-node.mdx#stake-requirements) section.

## See also

<DocCard item={findSidebarItem('/node/web3')} />
