docs/node/run-your-node/paratime-client-node.mdx, before:

import DocCard from '@theme/DocCard';
import {findSidebarItem} from '@site/src/sidebarUtils';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# ParaTime Client Node

:::info

These instructions are for setting up a _ParaTime client_ node which only observes ParaTime activity and can submit transactions. If you want to run a _ParaTime_ node instead, see the [instructions for running a ParaTime node](paratime-node.mdx). Similarly, if you want to run a _validator_ or a _non-validator_ node instead, see the [instructions for running a validator node](validator-node.mdx) or [instructions for running a non-validator node](non-validator-node.mdx).

:::

:::tip

If you are looking for some concrete ParaTimes that you can run, see [the list of ParaTimes and their parameters](../../get-involved/run-node/paratime-node.mdx).

:::

:::tip

Oasis Core refers to ParaTimes as runtimes internally, so all configuration options will have runtime in their name.

:::

This guide will cover setting up your ParaTime client node for the Oasis Network. This guide assumes some basic knowledge on the use of command line tools.

## Prerequisites

Before following this guide, make sure you've followed the [Prerequisites](prerequisites) and [Run a Non-validator Node](non-validator-node.mdx) sections and have:

* Oasis Node binary installed and configured on your system.
* The chosen top-level `/node/` working directory prepared. In addition to `etc` and `data` directories, also prepare the following directories:
  * `bin`: This will store binaries needed by Oasis Node for running the ParaTimes.
  * `runtimes`: This will store the ParaTime bundles.

:::tip

Feel free to name your working directory as you wish, e.g. `/srv/oasis/`.

Just make sure to use the correct working directory path in the instructions below.

:::

* Genesis file copied to `/node/etc/genesis.json`.

:::tip

Reading the rest of the [ParaTime node setup instructions](paratime-node.mdx) may also be useful.

:::

:::info

To speed up bootstraping your new node, we recommend [copying node's state from your existing node](advanced/copy-state-from-one-node-to-the-other.md) or [syncing it using state sync](advanced/sync-node-using-state-sync.md).

:::

:::tip

Running a ParaTime client node doesn't require registering an entity or its nodes.

It also doesn't require having any stake.

:::

:::tip

Running a client node for a ParaTime that runs in a trusted execution environment (TEE) doesn't require having the same TEE available on the ParaTime client node.

For example, running a ParaTime client node for an SGX-enabled ParaTime like Cipher doesn't require having SGX on the ParaTime client node.

:::

### The ParaTime Bundle

In order to run a ParaTime node you need to obtain an active ParaTime bundle,
see the Network Parameters page ([Mainnet], [Testnet]). The bundle (`.orc`
extension that stands for Oasis Runtime Container) contains all the needed
ParaTime binaries together with the identifier and version metadata to ease
deployment.

[Mainnet]: ../mainnet/README.md
[Testnet]: ../testnet/README.md

When the ParaTime is running in a trusted execution environment (TEE) the bundle
will also contain all the required artifacts (e.g. SGXS version of the binary
and any enclave signatures).

:::danger

Like the genesis document, make sure you obtain these from a trusted source.

:::

:::caution

#### **Compiling the ParaTime Binary from Source Code**

In case you decide to build the ParaTime binary from source yourself, make sure
that you follow our [guidelines for deterministic compilation](../../build/tools/build-paratime/reproducibility)
to ensure that you receive the exact same binary.

:::

### Install ParaTime Bundle

For each ParaTime, you need to obtain its bundle and install it to the
`runtimes` subdirectory of your node's working directory.

:::info

For example, for the [Cipher ParaTime](../mainnet/README.md#cipher),
you would have to obtain the `cipher-paratime.orc` bundle and install it to
`/node/runtimes/cipher-paratime.orc`.

:::

### Install Bubblewrap Sandbox (at least version 0.3.3)

ParaTime client nodes execute ParaTime binaries inside a sandboxed environment provided by [Bubblewrap](https://github.com/containers/bubblewrap). In order to install it, please follow these instructions, depending on your distribution:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="Ubuntu 18.10+">

```bash
sudo apt install bubblewrap
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Fedora">

```bash
sudo dnf install bubblewrap
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="other" label="Other Distributions">
On other systems, you can download the latest [source release provided by the Bubblewrap project](https://github.com/containers/bubblewrap/releases) and build it yourself.

Make sure you have the necessary development tools installed on your system and the `libcap` development headers. On Ubuntu, you can install them with:

```bash
sudo apt install build-essential libcap-dev
```

After obtaining the Bubblewrap source tarball, e.g. [bubblewrap-0.4.1.tar.xz](https://github.com/containers/bubblewrap/releases/download/v0.4.1/bubblewrap-0.4.1.tar.xz), run:

```bash
tar -xf bubblewrap-0.4.1.tar.xz
cd bubblewrap-0.4.1
./configure --prefix=/usr
make
sudo make install
```

:::caution

Note that Oasis Node expects Bubblewrap to be installed under `/usr/bin/bwrap` by default.

:::

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Ensure you have a new enough version by running:

```
bwrap --version
```

:::caution

Ubuntu 18.04 LTS (and earlier) provide overly-old `bubblewrap`. Follow _Other Distributions_ section on those systems.

:::

## Configuration

In order to configure the ParaTime client node, create the `/node/etc/config.yml` file with the following content:

```yaml
mode: client
common:
    data_dir: /node/data
    log:
        format: JSON
        level:
            cometbft: info
            cometbft/context: error
            default: info
genesis:
    file: /node/etc/genesis.json
p2p:
    seeds:
      # List of seed nodes to connect to.
      # NOTE: You can add additional seed nodes to this list if you want.
        - {{ seed_node_address }}
runtime:
    # Paths to ParaTime bundles for all of the supported ParaTimes.
    paths:
        - {{ runtime_orc_path }}
```

Before using this configuration you should collect the following information to replace  the  variables present in the configuration file:.

* `{{ seed_node_address }}`: The seed node address in the form `ID@IP:port`.
  * You can find the current Oasis Seed Node address in the Network Parameters page ([Mainnet], [Testnet]).
* `{{ runtime_orc_path }}`: Path to the [ParaTime bundle](paratime-client-node.mdx#the-paratime-bundle) of the form `/node/runtimes/foo-paratime.orc`.
  * You can find the current Oasis-supported ParaTimes in the Network Parameters page ([Mainnet], [Testnet]).

:::caution

Make sure the `consensus` port (default: `26656`) and `p2p.port` (default: `9200`) are exposed and publicly
accessible on the internet (for `TCP` and `UDP` traffic).

:::

## Configuring TEE Paratime Client Node

If your node requires the ability to issue queries that can access confidential
data, start by following the [Configuration](#configuration) section to create
the `/node/etc/config.yml` file. Once the file is set up, add the following
content to the `runtime` part within the `/node/etc/config.yml` file:

```yaml
# ... sections not relevant are omitted ...
runtime:
    # Paths to ParaTime bundles for all of the supported ParaTimes.
    paths:
        - {{ runtime_orc_path }}
    environment: sgx
    sgx_loader: /node/bin/oasis-core-runtime-loader
```

Before using this configuration you should collect the following information to
replace the variables present in the configuration file:

* `{{ runtime_orc_path }}`: Path to the
[ParaTime bundle](paratime-client-node.mdx#the-paratime-bundle) of the form
`/node/runtimes/foo-paratime.orc`.

## Enabling Expensive Queries

In case you need to issue runtime queries that may require more resources to
compute (e.g. when running a Web3 Gateway), you need to configure the following
in your node's `/node/etc/config.yml` file:

```yaml
# ... sections not relevant are omitted ...
runtime:
    paths:
      - {{ runtime_orc_path }}
    environment: sgx
    config:
      {{ runtime_id }}:
          estimate_gas_by_simulating_contracts: true
          allowed_queries:
              - all_expensive: true 
```

* `{{ runtime_id}}`: You can find the `runtime_id` in the Network Parameters
chapter ([Mainnet], [Testnet])
* `{{ runtime_orc_path }}`: Path to the
[ParaTime bundle](paratime-client-node.mdx#the-paratime-bundle) of the form
`/node/runtimes/foo-paratime.orc`.

## Starting the Oasis Node

You can start the node by running the following command:

```bash
oasis-node --config /node/etc/config.yml
```

## Checking Node Status

To ensure that your node is properly connected with the network, you can run the following command after the node has started:

```bash
oasis-node control status -a unix:/node/data/internal.sock
```

## See also

<DocCard item={findSidebarItem('/node/web3')} />

Commit message:

docs/node: Mention ParaTime observer node in other files

docs/node/run-your-node/paratime-client-node.mdx, after:

import DocCard from '@theme/DocCard';
import {findSidebarItem} from '@site/src/sidebarUtils';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# ParaTime Client Node

:::info

These instructions are for setting up a _ParaTime client_ node which only observes ParaTime activity and can submit transactions. Check out [instructions for running a ParaTime observer node](paratime-observer-node.mdx) for running _ParaTime observer_ node if you want to support confidential queries. If you want to run a _ParaTime_ node instead, see the [instructions for running a ParaTime node](paratime-node.mdx). Similarly, if you want to run a _validator_ or a _non-validator_ node instead, see the [instructions for running a validator node](validator-node.mdx) or [instructions for running a non-validator node](non-validator-node.mdx).

:::

:::tip

If you are looking for some concrete ParaTimes that you can run, see [the list of ParaTimes and their parameters](../../get-involved/run-node/paratime-node.mdx).

:::

:::tip

Oasis Core refers to ParaTimes as runtimes internally, so all configuration options will have runtime in their name.

:::

This guide will cover setting up your ParaTime client node for the Oasis Network. This guide assumes some basic knowledge on the use of command line tools.

## Prerequisites

Before following this guide, make sure you've followed the [Prerequisites](prerequisites) and [Run a Non-validator Node](non-validator-node.mdx) sections and have:

* Oasis Node binary installed and configured on your system.
* The chosen top-level `/node/` working directory prepared. In addition to `etc` and `data` directories, also prepare the following directories:
  * `bin`: This will store binaries needed by Oasis Node for running the ParaTimes.
  * `runtimes`: This will store the ParaTime bundles.

:::tip

Feel free to name your working directory as you wish, e.g. `/srv/oasis/`.

Just make sure to use the correct working directory path in the instructions below.

:::

* Genesis file copied to `/node/etc/genesis.json`.

:::tip

Reading the rest of the [ParaTime node setup instructions](paratime-node.mdx) may also be useful.

:::

:::info

To speed up bootstraping your new node, we recommend [copying node's state from your existing node](advanced/copy-state-from-one-node-to-the-other.md) or [syncing it using state sync](advanced/sync-node-using-state-sync.md).

:::

:::tip

Running a ParaTime client node doesn't require registering an entity or its nodes.

It also doesn't require having any stake.

:::

:::tip

Running a client node for a ParaTime that runs in a trusted execution environment (TEE) doesn't require having the same TEE available on the ParaTime client node.

For example, running a ParaTime client node for an SGX-enabled ParaTime like Cipher doesn't require having SGX on the ParaTime client node.

:::

### The ParaTime Bundle

In order to run a ParaTime node you need to obtain an active ParaTime bundle,
see the Network Parameters page ([Mainnet], [Testnet]). The bundle (`.orc`
extension that stands for Oasis Runtime Container) contains all the needed
ParaTime binaries together with the identifier and version metadata to ease
deployment.

[Mainnet]: ../mainnet/README.md
[Testnet]: ../testnet/README.md

When the ParaTime is running in a trusted execution environment (TEE) the bundle
will also contain all the required artifacts (e.g. SGXS version of the binary
and any enclave signatures).

:::danger

Like the genesis document, make sure you obtain these from a trusted source.

:::

:::caution

#### **Compiling the ParaTime Binary from Source Code**

In case you decide to build the ParaTime binary from source yourself, make sure
that you follow our [guidelines for deterministic compilation](../../build/tools/build-paratime/reproducibility)
to ensure that you receive the exact same binary.

:::

### Install ParaTime Bundle

For each ParaTime, you need to obtain its bundle and install it to the
`runtimes` subdirectory of your node's working directory.

:::info

For example, for the [Cipher ParaTime](../mainnet/README.md#cipher),
you would have to obtain the `cipher-paratime.orc` bundle and install it to
`/node/runtimes/cipher-paratime.orc`.

:::

### Install Bubblewrap Sandbox (at least version 0.3.3)

ParaTime client nodes execute ParaTime binaries inside a sandboxed environment provided by [Bubblewrap](https://github.com/containers/bubblewrap). In order to install it, please follow these instructions, depending on your distribution:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="Ubuntu 18.10+">

```bash
sudo apt install bubblewrap
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Fedora">

```bash
sudo dnf install bubblewrap
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="other" label="Other Distributions">
On other systems, you can download the latest [source release provided by the Bubblewrap project](https://github.com/containers/bubblewrap/releases) and build it yourself.

Make sure you have the necessary development tools installed on your system and the `libcap` development headers. On Ubuntu, you can install them with:

```bash
sudo apt install build-essential libcap-dev
```

After obtaining the Bubblewrap source tarball, e.g. [bubblewrap-0.4.1.tar.xz](https://github.com/containers/bubblewrap/releases/download/v0.4.1/bubblewrap-0.4.1.tar.xz), run:

```bash
tar -xf bubblewrap-0.4.1.tar.xz
cd bubblewrap-0.4.1
./configure --prefix=/usr
make
sudo make install
```

:::caution

Note that Oasis Node expects Bubblewrap to be installed under `/usr/bin/bwrap` by default.

:::

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Ensure you have a new enough version by running:

```
bwrap --version
```

:::caution

Ubuntu 18.04 LTS (and earlier) provide overly-old `bubblewrap`. Follow _Other Distributions_ section on those systems.

:::

## Configuration

In order to configure the ParaTime client node, create the `/node/etc/config.yml` file with the following content:

```yaml
mode: client
common:
    data_dir: /node/data
    log:
        format: JSON
        level:
            cometbft: info
            cometbft/context: error
            default: info
genesis:
    file: /node/etc/genesis.json
p2p:
    seeds:
      # List of seed nodes to connect to.
      # NOTE: You can add additional seed nodes to this list if you want.
        - {{ seed_node_address }}
runtime:
    # Paths to ParaTime bundles for all of the supported ParaTimes.
    paths:
        - {{ runtime_orc_path }}
```

Before using this configuration you should collect the following information to replace  the  variables present in the configuration file:.

* `{{ seed_node_address }}`: The seed node address in the form `ID@IP:port`.
  * You can find the current Oasis Seed Node address in the Network Parameters page ([Mainnet], [Testnet]).
* `{{ runtime_orc_path }}`: Path to the [ParaTime bundle](paratime-client-node.mdx#the-paratime-bundle) of the form `/node/runtimes/foo-paratime.orc`.
  * You can find the current Oasis-supported ParaTimes in the Network Parameters page ([Mainnet], [Testnet]).

:::caution

Make sure the `consensus` port (default: `26656`) and `p2p.port` (default: `9200`) are exposed and publicly
accessible on the internet (for `TCP` and `UDP` traffic).

:::

## Configuring TEE Paratime Client Node

If your node requires the ability to issue queries that can access confidential
data, start by following the [Configuration](#configuration) section to create
the `/node/etc/config.yml` file. Once the file is set up, add the following
content to the `runtime` part within the `/node/etc/config.yml` file:

```yaml
# ... sections not relevant are omitted ...
runtime:
    # Paths to ParaTime bundles for all of the supported ParaTimes.
    paths:
        - {{ runtime_orc_path }}
    environment: sgx
    sgx_loader: /node/bin/oasis-core-runtime-loader
```

Before using this configuration you should collect the following information to
replace the variables present in the configuration file:

* `{{ runtime_orc_path }}`: Path to the
[ParaTime bundle](paratime-client-node.mdx#the-paratime-bundle) of the form
`/node/runtimes/foo-paratime.orc`.

## Enabling Expensive Queries

In case you need to issue runtime queries that may require more resources to
compute (e.g. when running a Web3 Gateway), you need to configure the following
in your node's `/node/etc/config.yml` file:

```yaml
# ... sections not relevant are omitted ...
runtime:
    paths:
      - {{ runtime_orc_path }}
    environment: sgx
    config:
      {{ runtime_id }}:
          estimate_gas_by_simulating_contracts: true
          allowed_queries:
              - all_expensive: true 
```

* `{{ runtime_id}}`: You can find the `runtime_id` in the Network Parameters
chapter ([Mainnet], [Testnet])
* `{{ runtime_orc_path }}`: Path to the
[ParaTime bundle](paratime-client-node.mdx#the-paratime-bundle) of the form
`/node/runtimes/foo-paratime.orc`.

## Starting the Oasis Node

You can start the node by running the following command:

```bash
oasis-node --config /node/etc/config.yml
```

## Checking Node Status

To ensure that your node is properly connected with the network, you can run the following command after the node has started:

```bash
oasis-node control status -a unix:/node/data/internal.sock
```

## See also

<DocCard item={findSidebarItem('/node/web3')} />
