docs/node/run-your-node/troubleshooting.md, before:

# Troubleshooting

:::info **BEFORE YOU BEGIN TROUBLESHOOTING**

Before you begin troubleshooting we suggest you check all of the following:

* Check that your current binary version is the latest listed on the [Current Network Parameters](../mainnet/README.md)
  * Check the version on your localhost using `oasis-node --version`
  * Check the version on your server using `oasis-node --version`
* If upgrading, make sure that you've wiped state (unless that is explicitly not required)

* If you're doing anything with the entity:
  * Do you have the latest genesis?
  * Do you have the correct private key (or Ledger device).
  * If you're signing a transaction:
    * Do you sufficient account balance to make the transaction?
      * Run `oasis-node stake account info`
    * Are you using the correct nonce?
      * Run `oasis-node stake account info`
* If you're generating a transaction:
  * Do you have the latest genesis?
* If you're submitting a transaction:
  * Do you have the latest genesis?
  * Is your node synced? If not, the transaction will fail to run properly

:::

## Running a Node

### Invalid Permissions

#### Permissions for node and entity

Error Message:

```text
common/Mkdir: path '/serverdir/node' has invalid permissions: -rwxr-xr-x
```

The `entity` and `node` directories both need to have permissions `rwx------`. Make sure you initialize the directory with correct permissions or change them using `chmod`:

```bash
mkdir --mode 700 --parents {entity,node}
```

```bash
chmod 700 /serverdir/node
chmod 700 /serverdir/entity
```

#### Permissions for .pem files

Error Message example:

```text
signature/signer/file: invalid PEM file permissions 700 on /serverdir/node/identity.pem
```

All `.pem` files should have the permissions `600`. You can set the permissions for all `.pem` files in a directory using the following command:

```bash
chmod -R 600 /path/*.pem
```

#### Serverdir Ownership

Another possible cause of permission issues is not giving ownership of your `serverdir` to the user running the node (e.g. `docker-host` or replace with your user):

```bash
chown -R docker-host:docker-host /serverdir
```

In general, to avoid problems when running docker, specify the user when running `docker` commands by adding the flag `--user $(id -u):$(id -g)`.

### Cannot Find File

Error Message examples:

```text
no such file or directory
```

```text
file does not exist
```

```text
ts=2019-11-17T03:42:09.778647033Z level=error module=cmd/registry/node caller=node.go:127 msg="failed to load entity" err="file does not exist"
```

More often than you'd expect, this error is the result of setting the path incorrectly. You may have left something like `--genesis.file $GENESIS_FILE_PATH` in the command without setting `$GENESIS_FILE_PATH` first, or set the path incorrectly. Check that `echo $GENESIS_FILE_PATH` matches your expectation or provide a path in the command.

Another possible cause: the files in your localhost directory cannot be read from the container. Make sure to run commands in the same session within the container.

## Staking and Registering

### Transaction Out of Gas

Error message:

```text
module=cmd/stake caller=stake.go:70 msg="failed to submit transaction" err="rpc error: code = Unknown desc = staking: add escrow transaction failed: out of gas" attempt=1
```

The docs are now updated to show that you need to add `--stake.transaction.fee.gas` and `--stake.transaction.fee.amount` flags when generating your transaction. Note that if you're re-generating a transaction, you will need to increment the `--nonce` flag.

Commit message:

docs: Change /serverdir/node -> node/data

docs/node/run-your-node/troubleshooting.md, after:

# Troubleshooting

:::info **BEFORE YOU BEGIN TROUBLESHOOTING**

Before you begin troubleshooting we suggest you check all of the following:

* Check that your current binary version is the latest listed on the [Current Network Parameters](../mainnet/README.md)
  * Check the version on your localhost using `oasis-node --version`
  * Check the version on your server using `oasis-node --version`
* If upgrading, make sure that you've wiped state (unless that is explicitly not required)

* If you're doing anything with the entity:
  * Do you have the latest genesis?
  * Do you have the correct private key (or Ledger device).
  * If you're signing a transaction:
    * Do you sufficient account balance to make the transaction?
      * Run `oasis-node stake account info`
    * Are you using the correct nonce?
      * Run `oasis-node stake account info`
* If you're generating a transaction:
  * Do you have the latest genesis?
* If you're submitting a transaction:
  * Do you have the latest genesis?
  * Is your node synced? If not, the transaction will fail to run properly

:::

## Running a Node

### Invalid Permissions

#### Permissions for node and entity

Error Message:

```text
common/Mkdir: path '/node/data' has invalid permissions: -rwxr-xr-x
```

The `entity` and `node` directories both need to have permissions `rwx------`. Make sure you initialize the directory with correct permissions or change them using `chmod`:

```bash
mkdir --mode 700 --parents {entity,node}
```

```bash
chmod 700 /node/data
chmod 700 /node/etc
```

#### Permissions for .pem files

Error Message example:

```text
signature/signer/file: invalid PEM file permissions 700 on /node/data/identity.pem
```

All `.pem` files should have the permissions `600`. You can set the permissions for all `.pem` files in a directory using the following command:

```bash
chmod -R 600 /path/*.pem
```

#### Node directory Ownership

Another possible cause of permission issues is not giving ownership of your `node/` to the user running the node (e.g. `docker-host` or replace with your user):

```bash
chown -R docker-host:docker-host /node
```

In general, to avoid problems when running docker, specify the user when running `docker` commands by adding the flag `--user $(id -u):$(id -g)`.

### Cannot Find File

Error Message examples:

```text
no such file or directory
```

```text
file does not exist
```

```text
ts=2019-11-17T03:42:09.778647033Z level=error module=cmd/registry/node caller=node.go:127 msg="failed to load entity" err="file does not exist"
```

More often than you'd expect, this error is the result of setting the path incorrectly. You may have left something like `--genesis.file $GENESIS_FILE_PATH` in the command without setting `$GENESIS_FILE_PATH` first, or set the path incorrectly. Check that `echo $GENESIS_FILE_PATH` matches your expectation or provide a path in the command.

Another possible cause: the files in your localhost directory cannot be read from the container. Make sure to run commands in the same session within the container.

## Staking and Registering

### Transaction Out of Gas

Error message:

```text
module=cmd/stake caller=stake.go:70 msg="failed to submit transaction" err="rpc error: code = Unknown desc = staking: add escrow transaction failed: out of gas" attempt=1
```

The docs are now updated to show that you need to add `--stake.transaction.fee.gas` and `--stake.transaction.fee.amount` flags when generating your transaction. Note that if you're re-generating a transaction, you will need to increment the `--nonce` flag.
