docs/node/run-your-node/validator-node.mdx, before:

import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';
import {findSidebarItem} from '@site/src/sidebarUtils';

# Validator Node

This guide will walk you through the process of setting up your **validator
node** for the Oasis Network either on Mainnet or Testnet. It is designed for
individuals who have basic understanding of the command line environment.

We will be using two separate physical machines for deployment:
- your local system, referred to as `localhost`,
- a remote `server` which will function as an Oasis node.

The guide consists of the following steps:

1. On the `localhost`, we will use [Oasis CLI] to [Initialize your
Entity](#initialize-entity) which is essential for deploying nodes on the
network. To ensure the security of these private keys, we strongly recommend
to either isolate the `localhost` from any network or internet connectivity, or
use a [hardware wallet] as a secure storage, such as [Ledger].

[Oasis CLI]: ../../general/manage-tokens/cli/README.md
[hardware wallet]:
  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hardware_security_module
[Ledger]:
  ../../../general/manage-tokens/holding-rose-tokens/ledger-wallet

2. After the entity has been created, we will move over to the `server` and
[Start the Oasis Node](#starting-the-oasis-node). The server needs to meet
the hardware requirements and have access to the internet.

3. Finally, we will [stake assets to your entity, register it on the network,
and attach the unique ID](#staking-and-registering) of the
Oasis Node instance running on your server.

## Prerequisites

Before proceeding with this guide, ensure that you have completed the steps
outlined in the [Prerequisites] chapter so that:

* your system meets the [hardware requirements],
* you have the [Oasis CLI] installed on your `localhost`,
* you have the [Oasis Node binary] installed on your `server`,
* you understand what are [Stake requirements] to become a validator on the
  Oasis Network.

[Prerequisites]: prerequisites/
[hardware requirements]: prerequisites/hardware-recommendations.md
[Oasis Node binary]: prerequisites/oasis-node.md
[Stake requirements]: prerequisites/stake-requirements.md

## Initialize Entity

:::danger

Everything in this section should be done on the `localhost` as there are
sensitive items that will be created.

:::

During the entity initialization process, you will generate essential components
such as keys and other crucial artifacts that are necessary for the deployment
of nodes on the network. This guide has been designed with a particular file
structure in mind. Nonetheless, feel free to reorganize and rename directories
as needed to accommodate your preferences.

### Add Entity Account to Oasis CLI

An entity is critical to operating nodes on the network as it controls the stake
attached to a given individual or organization on the network. The entity is
represented as a consensus-layer account using the Ed25519 encryption scheme.
To protect your entity private key, we strongly recommend using a [hardware
wallet] such as [Ledger].

We will be using [Oasis CLI] to initialize the entity and later stake our assets
and register the entity on the network. If you haven't already, go ahead and
install it.

Oasis CLI stores either your entity private key encrypted inside a file or a
reference to an account whose keypair is stored on your hardware wallet.

:::danger

If you really need to use the file-based wallet using another
[offline/air-gapped machine] for this purpose is highly recommended. Gaining
access to the entity private key can compromise your tokens and the network
security through proposing and signing malicious governance transactions.

:::

On the `localhost` add a new entity account to Oasis CLI. This can be done in
one of the following ways:

- Create an account entry in Oasis CLI, but use your Ledger device to store
  the actual keypair to sign the transactions by executing
  [`oasis wallet create`] and passing the `--kind ledger` flag. For example:

  ```shell
  oasis wallet create my_entity --kind ledger
  ```

- Import your existing `entity.pem` into Oasis CLI by executing
  [`oasis wallet import-file`] command, for example:

  ```shell
  oasis wallet import-file my_entity entity.pem
  ```

- Generate a new keypair and store the private key in the encrypted file by
  executing [`oasis wallet create`]:

  ```shell
  oasis wallet create my_entity
  ```

Similar to the examples above we will assume that you named your entity account
as **`my_entity`** in the remainder of this chapter.

### Write the Entity Descriptor File

On the `localhost` we begin by creating a directory named `/localhostdir` with
the `entity` subdirectory that will contain the entity file descriptor.

```shell
mkdir -p /localhostdir/entity
```

Create a JSON file containing the **public key** of your entity by executing
[`oasis account entity init`] and store it as `entity.json`, for example:

```shell
oasis account entity init -o /localhostdir/entity/entity.json --account my_entity
```

Now, we can move on to configuring our Oasis node with the freshly generated
`entity.json`.

[Ledger]: ../../general/manage-tokens/holding-rose-tokens/ledger-wallet.md
[offline/air-gapped machine]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Air_gap_\(networking\)
[`oasis wallet create`]: ../../general/manage-tokens/cli/wallet.md#create
[`oasis wallet import`]: ../../general/manage-tokens/cli/wallet.md#import
[`oasis wallet import-file`]: ../../general/manage-tokens/cli/wallet.md#import-file
[`oasis account entity init`]: ../../general/manage-tokens/cli/account.md#entity-init

### Copy the Public Entity File Descriptor to `server`

The Oasis node needs access to the public key of your entity. Copy your
`entity.json` to `/node/etc/entity.json` on the `server`.

## Configuration

There are a variety of options available when running an Oasis node. The
following YAML file is a basic configuration for a validator node on the
network.

Before using this configuration you should collect the following information to
replace the variables present in the configuration file:

* `{{ external_ip }}`: The external/public IP address you used when registering
  this node.

:::info

If you are using a [Sentry Node](sentry-node.md), you should use the public IP
of that machine.

:::

* `{{ seed_node_address }}`: The seed node address in the form `ID@IP:port`.

  You can find the current Oasis Seed Node address in the Network Parameters
  page ([Mainnet], [Testnet]).

To use this configuration, save it in the `/node/etc/config.yml` file:

```yaml title="/node/etc/config.yml"
mode: validator
common:
    # Set this to where you wish to store node data. The node's artifacts
    # should also be located in this directory.
    data_dir: /node/data
    # Logging.
    #
    # Per-module log levels are defined below. If you prefer just one unified
    # log level, you can use:
    #
    # log:
    #   level: debug
    log:
        level:
            cometbft: warn
            cometbft/context: error
            # Per-module log levels. Longest prefix match will be taken.
            # Fallback to "default", if no match.
            default: debug
        format: JSON
        # By default logs are output to stdout. If you would like to output
        # logs to a file, you can use:
        #
        # file: /var/log/oasis-node.log

consensus:
    # The external IP that is used when registering this node to the network.
    # NOTE: If you are using the Sentry node setup, this option should be
    # omitted.
    external_address: tcp://{{ external_ip }}:26656
    listen_address: tcp://0.0.0.0:26656

genesis:
    # Path to the genesis file for the current version of the network.
    file: /node/etc/genesis.json

p2p:
    port: 9200
    registration:
        addresses:
            - {{ external_ip }}:9200
    seeds:
        # List of seed nodes to connect to.
        # NOTE: You can add additional seed nodes to this list if you want.
        - {{ seed_node_address }}

registration:
    # In order for the node to register itself, the entity.json of the entity
    # used to provision the node must be available on the node.
    entity: /node/etc/entity.json
```

## Starting the Oasis Node

You can start the node by simply running the command:

```shell
oasis-node --config /node/etc/config.yml
```

:::tip

The Oasis node is configured to run in the foreground by default.

We recommend that you configure and use it with a process manager like
[systemd](https://github.com/systemd/systemd) or
[Supervisor](http://supervisord.org). Check out the [System Configuration]
page for examples.

:::

### Node Keys

The Oasis node requires **node keys** in order to register itself and to
securely communicate with other nodes in the peer-to-peer network. The following
keys will automatically be generated and stored in your `/node/data` folder
as `.pem` files:

* `consensus.pem`: The node's consensus private key. **DO NOT SHARE**
* `consensus_pub.pem`: The node's consensus public key.
* `identity.pem`: The node's identity private key. **DO NOT SHARE**
* `identity_pub.pem`: The node's identity public key.
* `p2p.pem`: The node's private key for libp2p. **DO NOT SHARE**
* `p2p_pub.pem`: The node's public key for libp2p.
* `sentry_client_tls_identity.pem`: The node's TLS private key for communicating
  with sentry nodes. **DO NOT SHARE**
* `sentry_client_tls_identity_cert.pem`: The node's TLS certificate for
  communicating with sentry nodes.

:::info

If the node keys do not exist, they will be automatically generated when you
launch the Oasis node. Otherwise, the existing ones will be used.

:::

:::caution

You may have noticed that some files above are listed as **DO NOT SHARE**.

Ideally, the node keys should be stored on a separate device such as a
[hardware wallet] or a [remote signer]. However, until the support is
fully implemented, keep the keys on the `server` as secure as possible.

:::

[System Configuration]: prerequisites/system-configuration.mdx#create-a-user

### Ensuring Proper Permissions

Only the owner of the process that runs the Oasis node should have access to the
files in the `/node/data` directory. The `oasis-node` binary ensures that
the files used by the node are as least privileged as possible so that you don't
accidentally shoot yourself in the foot while operating a node.

If you followed the steps described in the
[Install the Oasis Node][Oasis node binary] chapter, then the proper permissions
are already set:

* `700` for the `/node/data` directory
* `700` for the `/node/etc` directory
* `700` for the `/node/runtimes` directory
* `600` for all `/node/data/*.pem` files

Otherwise, run the following to remove all non-owner read/write/execute
permissions:

```shell
chmod -R go-r,go-w,go-x /node
```

[remote signer]: advanced/remote-signer.mdx

### Obtain the Node ID

Now that the Oasis node is running, you can obtain your unique node ID which is
needed in order to associate your node with your entity in the network registry.

```shell
oasis-node control status -a unix:/node/data/internal.sock | jq .identity.node
```

```
"5MsgQwijUlpH9+0Hbyors5jwmx7tTmKMA4c9leV3prI="
```

### Check that your Node is Synced

Before you can become a validator, you will have to make sure that your node is
synced. To do so call this command on the server:

```shell
oasis-node control is-synced -a unix:/node/data/internal.sock
```

If your node is synced, the above command should output:

```
"ready"
```

If your node is not yet synced, you will need to wait before you can move
forward.

## Staking and Registering {#staking-and-registering}

Once you have been funded, you can complete the process of connecting your node
to the network by registering both your entity and your node, as described
below.

### Staking (Escrow) Transaction

The current minimum stake required to register an entity and register a node as
a validator is 200 tokens. We will submit the escrow transaction that
delegates 200 tokens from your entity account on the consensus layer to itself
by invoking the [`oasis account delegate`] command.

```shell
oasis account delegate 200 my_entity --no-paratime --account my_entity
```

You can also fund your entity account from a different one. If you haven't yet
invoke the [`oasis wallet import`] command to import the private key of the
funding account to the Oasis CLI and follow the instructions.

```shell
oasis wallet import my_funding_account
```

Then, invoke the [`oasis account delegate`] passing the new account name with
the `--account` parameter. For example:

```shell
oasis account delegate 200 my_entity --no-paratime --account my_funding_account
```

[`oasis account delegate`]: ../../general/manage-tokens/cli/account.md#delegate

### Add your Node ID to the Entity Descriptor

Now we can register our entity on the network and associate it with the node ID
obtained in the [section above](#obtain-the-node-id). Open the `entity.json`
file we initially generated and add the ID inside the `nodes` block. Your
entity descriptor file should now look like this:

```json
{
  "id": "Bx6gOixnxy15tCs09ua5DcKyX9uo2Forb32O6Hyjoc8=",
  "nodes": [
    "5MsgQwijUlpH9+0Hbyors5jwmx7tTmKMA4c9leV3prI="
  ],
  "v": 2
}
```

### Entity Registration

We can submit the fresh entity file descriptor by invoking the
[`oasis account entity register`] command:

```shell
oasis account entity register entity.json --account my_entity
```

[`oasis account entity register`]: ../../general/manage-tokens/cli/account.md#entity-register

### Check that Your Node is Properly Registered

To ensure that your node is properly connected as a validator on the network,
invoke the following command on your `server`:

```shell
oasis-node control status -a unix:/node/data/internal.sock | jq .consensus.is_validator
```

If your node is registered and became a validator, the above command should
output:

```
true
```

:::info

Nodes are only elected into the validator set at epoch transitions, so you may
need to wait for up to an epoch before being considered.

:::

:::caution

In order to be elected in the validator set you **need to have enough
stake to be in the top K entities** (where K is a network-specific parameter
specified by the [`scheduler.max_validators`] field in the genesis document).

:::

Congratulations, if you made it this far, you've properly connected your node
to the network and became a validator on the Oasis Network.

[`scheduler.max_validators`]: ../genesis-doc.md#consensus

## Oasis Metadata Registry

For the final touch, you can add some metadata about your entity to the
[Metadata Registry]. The Metadata Registry is the same for Mainnet and
the Testnet. The metadata consists of your entity name, email, Keybase handle,
Twitter handle, etc. This information is also used by various applications.
For example the [Oasis Wallet - Web] and the [Oasis Scan] will fetch and show
the node operator's name and the avatar.

[Metadata Registry]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/metadata-registry
[Oasis Wallet - Web]: https://wallet.oasisprotocol.org
[Oasis Scan]: https://www.oasisscan.com/validators

# See also

<DocCardList items={[
    findSidebarItem('/general/manage-tokens/cli/'),
    findSidebarItem('/core/oasis-node/cli'),
    findSidebarItem('/node/grpc')]}
/>

Commit message:

mention publicly exposing ports in node configuration pages

docs/node/run-your-node/validator-node.mdx, after:

import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';
import {findSidebarItem} from '@site/src/sidebarUtils';

# Validator Node

This guide will walk you through the process of setting up your **validator
node** for the Oasis Network either on Mainnet or Testnet. It is designed for
individuals who have basic understanding of the command line environment.

We will be using two separate physical machines for deployment:
- your local system, referred to as `localhost`,
- a remote `server` which will function as an Oasis node.

The guide consists of the following steps:

1. On the `localhost`, we will use [Oasis CLI] to [Initialize your
Entity](#initialize-entity) which is essential for deploying nodes on the
network. To ensure the security of these private keys, we strongly recommend
to either isolate the `localhost` from any network or internet connectivity, or
use a [hardware wallet] as a secure storage, such as [Ledger].

[Oasis CLI]: ../../general/manage-tokens/cli/README.md
[hardware wallet]:
  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hardware_security_module
[Ledger]:
  ../../../general/manage-tokens/holding-rose-tokens/ledger-wallet

2. After the entity has been created, we will move over to the `server` and
[Start the Oasis Node](#starting-the-oasis-node). The server needs to meet
the hardware requirements and have access to the internet.

3. Finally, we will [stake assets to your entity, register it on the network,
and attach the unique ID](#staking-and-registering) of the
Oasis Node instance running on your server.

## Prerequisites

Before proceeding with this guide, ensure that you have completed the steps
outlined in the [Prerequisites] chapter so that:

* your system meets the [hardware requirements],
* you have the [Oasis CLI] installed on your `localhost`,
* you have the [Oasis Node binary] installed on your `server`,
* you understand what are [Stake requirements] to become a validator on the
  Oasis Network.

[Prerequisites]: prerequisites/
[hardware requirements]: prerequisites/hardware-recommendations.md
[Oasis Node binary]: prerequisites/oasis-node.md
[Stake requirements]: prerequisites/stake-requirements.md

## Initialize Entity

:::danger

Everything in this section should be done on the `localhost` as there are
sensitive items that will be created.

:::

During the entity initialization process, you will generate essential components
such as keys and other crucial artifacts that are necessary for the deployment
of nodes on the network. This guide has been designed with a particular file
structure in mind. Nonetheless, feel free to reorganize and rename directories
as needed to accommodate your preferences.

### Add Entity Account to Oasis CLI

An entity is critical to operating nodes on the network as it controls the stake
attached to a given individual or organization on the network. The entity is
represented as a consensus-layer account using the Ed25519 encryption scheme.
To protect your entity private key, we strongly recommend using a [hardware
wallet] such as [Ledger].

We will be using [Oasis CLI] to initialize the entity and later stake our assets
and register the entity on the network. If you haven't already, go ahead and
install it.

Oasis CLI stores either your entity private key encrypted inside a file or a
reference to an account whose keypair is stored on your hardware wallet.

:::danger

If you really need to use the file-based wallet using another
[offline/air-gapped machine] for this purpose is highly recommended. Gaining
access to the entity private key can compromise your tokens and the network
security through proposing and signing malicious governance transactions.

:::

On the `localhost` add a new entity account to Oasis CLI. This can be done in
one of the following ways:

- Create an account entry in Oasis CLI, but use your Ledger device to store
  the actual keypair to sign the transactions by executing
  [`oasis wallet create`] and passing the `--kind ledger` flag. For example:

  ```shell
  oasis wallet create my_entity --kind ledger
  ```

- Import your existing `entity.pem` into Oasis CLI by executing
  [`oasis wallet import-file`] command, for example:

  ```shell
  oasis wallet import-file my_entity entity.pem
  ```

- Generate a new keypair and store the private key in the encrypted file by
  executing [`oasis wallet create`]:

  ```shell
  oasis wallet create my_entity
  ```

Similar to the examples above we will assume that you named your entity account
as **`my_entity`** in the remainder of this chapter.

### Write the Entity Descriptor File

On the `localhost` we begin by creating a directory named `/localhostdir` with
the `entity` subdirectory that will contain the entity file descriptor.

```shell
mkdir -p /localhostdir/entity
```

Create a JSON file containing the **public key** of your entity by executing
[`oasis account entity init`] and store it as `entity.json`, for example:

```shell
oasis account entity init -o /localhostdir/entity/entity.json --account my_entity
```

Now, we can move on to configuring our Oasis node with the freshly generated
`entity.json`.

[Ledger]: ../../general/manage-tokens/holding-rose-tokens/ledger-wallet.md
[offline/air-gapped machine]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Air_gap_\(networking\)
[`oasis wallet create`]: ../../general/manage-tokens/cli/wallet.md#create
[`oasis wallet import`]: ../../general/manage-tokens/cli/wallet.md#import
[`oasis wallet import-file`]: ../../general/manage-tokens/cli/wallet.md#import-file
[`oasis account entity init`]: ../../general/manage-tokens/cli/account.md#entity-init

### Copy the Public Entity File Descriptor to `server`

The Oasis node needs access to the public key of your entity. Copy your
`entity.json` to `/node/etc/entity.json` on the `server`.

## Configuration

There are a variety of options available when running an Oasis node. The
following YAML file is a basic configuration for a validator node on the
network.

Before using this configuration you should collect the following information to
replace the variables present in the configuration file:

* `{{ external_ip }}`: The external/public IP address you used when registering
  this node.

:::info

If you are using a [Sentry Node](sentry-node.md), you should use the public IP
of that machine.

:::

* `{{ seed_node_address }}`: The seed node address in the form `ID@IP:port`.

  You can find the current Oasis Seed Node address in the Network Parameters
  page ([Mainnet], [Testnet]).

To use this configuration, save it in the `/node/etc/config.yml` file:

```yaml title="/node/etc/config.yml"
mode: validator
common:
    # Set this to where you wish to store node data. The node's artifacts
    # should also be located in this directory.
    data_dir: /node/data
    # Logging.
    #
    # Per-module log levels are defined below. If you prefer just one unified
    # log level, you can use:
    #
    # log:
    #   level: debug
    log:
        level:
            cometbft: warn
            cometbft/context: error
            # Per-module log levels. Longest prefix match will be taken.
            # Fallback to "default", if no match.
            default: debug
        format: JSON
        # By default logs are output to stdout. If you would like to output
        # logs to a file, you can use:
        #
        # file: /var/log/oasis-node.log

consensus:
    # The external IP that is used when registering this node to the network.
    # NOTE: If you are using the Sentry node setup, this option should be
    # omitted.
    external_address: tcp://{{ external_ip }}:26656
    listen_address: tcp://0.0.0.0:26656

genesis:
    # Path to the genesis file for the current version of the network.
    file: /node/etc/genesis.json

p2p:
    port: 9200
    registration:
        addresses:
            - {{ external_ip }}:9200
    seeds:
        # List of seed nodes to connect to.
        # NOTE: You can add additional seed nodes to this list if you want.
        - {{ seed_node_address }}

registration:
    # In order for the node to register itself, the entity.json of the entity
    # used to provision the node must be available on the node.
    entity: /node/etc/entity.json
```

:::caution

Make sure the `consensus` port (default: `26656`) and `p2p.port` (default: `9200`) are exposed and publicly
accessible on the internet (for `TCP` and `UDP` traffic).

:::

## Starting the Oasis Node

You can start the node by simply running the command:

```shell
oasis-node --config /node/etc/config.yml
```

:::tip

The Oasis node is configured to run in the foreground by default.

We recommend that you configure and use it with a process manager like
[systemd](https://github.com/systemd/systemd) or
[Supervisor](http://supervisord.org). Check out the [System Configuration]
page for examples.

:::

### Node Keys

The Oasis node requires **node keys** in order to register itself and to
securely communicate with other nodes in the peer-to-peer network. The following
keys will automatically be generated and stored in your `/node/data` folder
as `.pem` files:

* `consensus.pem`: The node's consensus private key. **DO NOT SHARE**
* `consensus_pub.pem`: The node's consensus public key.
* `identity.pem`: The node's identity private key. **DO NOT SHARE**
* `identity_pub.pem`: The node's identity public key.
* `p2p.pem`: The node's private key for libp2p. **DO NOT SHARE**
* `p2p_pub.pem`: The node's public key for libp2p.
* `sentry_client_tls_identity.pem`: The node's TLS private key for communicating
  with sentry nodes. **DO NOT SHARE**
* `sentry_client_tls_identity_cert.pem`: The node's TLS certificate for
  communicating with sentry nodes.

:::info

If the node keys do not exist, they will be automatically generated when you
launch the Oasis node. Otherwise, the existing ones will be used.

:::

:::caution

You may have noticed that some files above are listed as **DO NOT SHARE**.

Ideally, the node keys should be stored on a separate device such as a
[hardware wallet] or a [remote signer]. However, until the support is
fully implemented, keep the keys on the `server` as secure as possible.

:::

[System Configuration]: prerequisites/system-configuration.mdx#create-a-user

### Ensuring Proper Permissions

Only the owner of the process that runs the Oasis node should have access to the
files in the `/node/data` directory. The `oasis-node` binary ensures that
the files used by the node are as least privileged as possible so that you don't
accidentally shoot yourself in the foot while operating a node.

If you followed the steps described in the
[Install the Oasis Node][Oasis node binary] chapter, then the proper permissions
are already set:

* `700` for the `/node/data` directory
* `700` for the `/node/etc` directory
* `700` for the `/node/runtimes` directory
* `600` for all `/node/data/*.pem` files

Otherwise, run the following to remove all non-owner read/write/execute
permissions:

```shell
chmod -R go-r,go-w,go-x /node
```

[remote signer]: advanced/remote-signer.mdx

### Obtain the Node ID

Now that the Oasis node is running, you can obtain your unique node ID which is
needed in order to associate your node with your entity in the network registry.

```shell
oasis-node control status -a unix:/node/data/internal.sock | jq .identity.node
```

```
"5MsgQwijUlpH9+0Hbyors5jwmx7tTmKMA4c9leV3prI="
```

### Check that your Node is Synced

Before you can become a validator, you will have to make sure that your node is
synced. To do so call this command on the server:

```shell
oasis-node control is-synced -a unix:/node/data/internal.sock
```

If your node is synced, the above command should output:

```
"ready"
```

If your node is not yet synced, you will need to wait before you can move
forward.

## Staking and Registering {#staking-and-registering}

Once you have been funded, you can complete the process of connecting your node
to the network by registering both your entity and your node, as described
below.

### Staking (Escrow) Transaction

The current minimum stake required to register an entity and register a node as
a validator is 200 tokens. We will submit the escrow transaction that
delegates 200 tokens from your entity account on the consensus layer to itself
by invoking the [`oasis account delegate`] command.

```shell
oasis account delegate 200 my_entity --no-paratime --account my_entity
```

You can also fund your entity account from a different one. If you haven't yet
invoke the [`oasis wallet import`] command to import the private key of the
funding account to the Oasis CLI and follow the instructions.

```shell
oasis wallet import my_funding_account
```

Then, invoke the [`oasis account delegate`] passing the new account name with
the `--account` parameter. For example:

```shell
oasis account delegate 200 my_entity --no-paratime --account my_funding_account
```

[`oasis account delegate`]: ../../general/manage-tokens/cli/account.md#delegate

### Add your Node ID to the Entity Descriptor

Now we can register our entity on the network and associate it with the node ID
obtained in the [section above](#obtain-the-node-id). Open the `entity.json`
file we initially generated and add the ID inside the `nodes` block. Your
entity descriptor file should now look like this:

```json
{
  "id": "Bx6gOixnxy15tCs09ua5DcKyX9uo2Forb32O6Hyjoc8=",
  "nodes": [
    "5MsgQwijUlpH9+0Hbyors5jwmx7tTmKMA4c9leV3prI="
  ],
  "v": 2
}
```

### Entity Registration

We can submit the fresh entity file descriptor by invoking the
[`oasis account entity register`] command:

```shell
oasis account entity register entity.json --account my_entity
```

[`oasis account entity register`]: ../../general/manage-tokens/cli/account.md#entity-register

### Check that Your Node is Properly Registered

To ensure that your node is properly connected as a validator on the network,
invoke the following command on your `server`:

```shell
oasis-node control status -a unix:/node/data/internal.sock | jq .consensus.is_validator
```

If your node is registered and became a validator, the above command should
output:

```
true
```

:::info

Nodes are only elected into the validator set at epoch transitions, so you may
need to wait for up to an epoch before being considered.

:::

:::caution

In order to be elected in the validator set you **need to have enough
stake to be in the top K entities** (where K is a network-specific parameter
specified by the [`scheduler.max_validators`] field in the genesis document).

:::

Congratulations, if you made it this far, you've properly connected your node
to the network and became a validator on the Oasis Network.

[`scheduler.max_validators`]: ../genesis-doc.md#consensus

## Oasis Metadata Registry

For the final touch, you can add some metadata about your entity to the
[Metadata Registry]. The Metadata Registry is the same for Mainnet and
the Testnet. The metadata consists of your entity name, email, Keybase handle,
Twitter handle, etc. This information is also used by various applications.
For example the [Oasis Wallet - Web] and the [Oasis Scan] will fetch and show
the node operator's name and the avatar.

[Metadata Registry]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/metadata-registry
[Oasis Wallet - Web]: https://wallet.oasisprotocol.org
[Oasis Scan]: https://www.oasisscan.com/validators

# See also

<DocCardList items={[
    findSidebarItem('/general/manage-tokens/cli/'),
    findSidebarItem('/core/oasis-node/cli'),
    findSidebarItem('/node/grpc')]}
/>
